\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-

@c ------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c  Scout - The Amiga System Monitor
@c
@c ------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
@c  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
@c  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
@c  any later version.
@c
@c  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
@c  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
@c  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
@c  GNU General Public License for more details.
@c
@c  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
@c  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
@c  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
@c
@c ------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c  author Andreas Gelhausen
@c  author Richard K@"orber <rkoerber@gmx.de>
@c  author Thore B@"ockelmann <tboeckel@uni-paderborn.de>
@c
@c ------------------------------------------------------------------

@c ===================================================================
@c V37GUIDE: 'makeinfo --amiga -D guide --output scout.guide scout.texi'
@c V39GUIDE: 'makeinfo --amiga-39 -D guide --output scout-39.guide scout.texi'
@c DOC-FILE: 'makeinfo --amiga-39 --no-headers --output scout.doc scout.texi'
@c DVI-FILE: 'virtex &plain scout.texi' (2-mal)
@c DVIPRINT: 'dviprint printer DeskJet voffset 3cm hoffset 2cm fast
@c            from 1 to 3 scout.dvi'
@c ===================================================================

@c ===================================================================
@c ============================ Header ===============================
@c ===================================================================
@setfilename scout.info
@settitle Scout

@smallbook
@defcodeindex op
@iftex
@c @afourpaper
@end iftex

@setchapternewpage odd
@set xrefstring see
@set Xrefstring See

@c Set smallbook if printing in smallbook format so the example of the
@c smallbook font is actually written using smallbook; in bigbook, a kludge
@c is used for TeX output.
@set smallbook

@set edition 3.0
@set release 3.0
@set programversion 37
@set programrevision 227
@set update-date 16 May 2002
@set update-month May 2002

@c finalout

@c ===================================================================
@c ==================== Titlepage and Copyright ======================
@c ===================================================================
@titlepage
@sp 10
@title Scout
@subtitle System Monitor
@subtitle Scout @value{programversion}.@value{programrevision} (Release @value{release})
@subtitle Edition @value{edition}
@subtitle @value{update-month}

@author by Thore B@"ockelmann

@ignore
@c The following two commands start the copyright page.
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1994-2002 Andreas Gelhausen, Richard K@"orber, Thore B@"ockelmann
@end ignore
@end titlepage

@c ===================================================================
@c ================== `Top' Node and Master Menu =====================
@c ===================================================================
@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@ifinfo
@format

                             Scout @value{programversion}.@value{programrevision}
                             Release @value{release}
                            User's Manual
          Copyright @copyright{} 1994-2002 Andreas Gelhausen, Richard K@"orber, Thore B@"ockelmann
@end format
@end ifinfo


@menu
* Introduction::         What is @code{Scout}?

* Copyright::            Please read this first!

* System Requirements::  What your system should have
* Installation::         Installing @code{Scout}

* Using Scout::          How to use @code{Scout}
* Scout and AmiTCP::     @code{Scout} as @code{AmiTCP} service
* Scout without MUI::    @code{MUI} is not necessary!

* Options::              You can set some variables.
* Commands::             ARexx and shell commands

* Updates::              How to get updates
* Credits::              Thanks are going to@dots{}
* Author Info::          How to reach the author

* Index::                Contents index
@end menu

@c ===================================================================
@c ==================== The Body of the Document =====================
@c ===================================================================
@node Introduction, Copyright, Top, Top
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@iftex
@chapter Introduction
@end iftex

@heading What is Scout?
@cindex What is Scout?
@cindex Introduction

@code{Scout} is a tool that allows you to monitor your computer
system.  It displays many different things --- like tasks, ports,
assigns, expansion boards, resident commands, interrupts, etc.  ---
and you can perform some certain actions on them.

For example you can freeze tasks, close windows and screens, release
semaphores or remove locks, ports and interrupts.

@noindent Through @code{AmiTCP} it's also possible to use @code{Scout} as
an TCP/IP service.

Since version 2.0 of @code{Scout} you can use nearly all implemented
functions through shell parameters. Therefore it's not necessary
to install @code{MUI} for using @code{Scout}, but you will need
@code{MUI}, if you want to use @code{Scout} with its graphical user
interface.


@c =----------------------------------------------------------------------

@iftex
@chapter Legalities
@end iftex

@node Copyright, System Requirements, Introduction, Top
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@cindex Legalities
@heading Copyright
@cindex Copyright
@cindex No Warranty

Please read the following parts carefully. You accept the following terms
by starting the software, even for a test drive only.

@table @strong
@item COPYRIGHT
@cindex Copyright
Scout @value{programversion}.@value{programrevision} (Release
@value{release}) - Copyright @copyright{} 1994-2002 by Andreas Gelhausen, Richard K@"orber and Thore B@"ockelmann,
all rights reserved.

You only have the right to use the software, but no rights on
the software itself. Disassembling, resourcing and all other ways
of reverse engineering is forbidden.

@item FREEWARE
@cindex FreeWare
Scout is FreeWare. You are allowed to use the packet without
paying a fee or similar to the authors. Of course we would appreciate
a small donor! ;-)

@item COPYING
@cindex Copying
You can copy the packet as long as it remains entire and unchanged.

You are allowed to compress the packet using a customary compression
software (as lha, lzh, lzx, dms). You must not compress single files of
the packet (e.g. PowerPacker or Imploder).

@item DISTRIBUTION
@cindex Distribution
You must not exceed an usual price on the market for your working
and material. This means a maximum of 5 DM (or the equivalent amount
in other currencies, including all taxes) for disks and 35 DM for
CD-ROMs containing a PD software collection.

In any case, you need a written permission from us if you want to include
Scout on a cover disk or in connection with a commercial product.

We explicitly permit the distribution via AmiNet, Meeting Pearls and
Fred Fish.

@item LIABILITY
@cindex Liability
You are using the program as it is, with all flaws, and on your
own risk! We grant no warranty for the software meeting a special
purpose. This software may cause financial damage or harm people.

@item LIMITATIONS
@cindex Limitation
You are not allowed to use this software and its results

@itemize @bullet
@item for fascism or military purposes
@item if you do not agree to the copyright note
@end itemize

In this case you must delete the software and all related and
generated files immediately!

@item CONTENTS OF THE PACKET
@cindex Contents
The Scout packet is @emph{only} entire with these files:
@example
Scout/arexx/activatetask.scout
Scout/arexx/arexx.readme
Scout/arexx/arexx.readme.info
Scout/arexx/breaktask.scout
Scout/arexx/freezetask.scout
Scout/arexx/poptofront.scout
Scout/arexx/settaskpri.scout
Scout/arexx/startup.scout
Scout/arexx.info
Scout/help/deutsch/scout-39.guide
Scout/help/deutsch/scout-39.guide.info
Scout/help/deutsch/scout.doc
Scout/help/deutsch/scout.doc.info
Scout/help/deutsch/scout.dvi
Scout/help/deutsch/scout.guide
Scout/help/deutsch/scout.guide.info
Scout/help/deutsch.info
Scout/help/english/scout-39.guide
Scout/help/english/scout-39.guide.info
Scout/help/english/scout.doc
Scout/help/english/scout.doc.info
Scout/help/english/scout.dvi
Scout/help/english/scout.guide
Scout/help/english/scout.guide.info
Scout/help/english.info
Scout/help.info
Scout/icons/icons.readme
Scout/icons/icons.readme.info
Scout/icons/Scout.info
Scout/icons/ScoutDock
Scout/icons/ScoutDock.info
Scout/icons.info
Scout/libs/identify.library
Scout/libs/identify.readme
Scout/libs/identify.readme.info
Scout/libs.info
Scout/Product-Info
Scout/Scout
Scout/Scout.info
Scout/scout.history
Scout/Scout.history.info
Scout/Scout.readme
Scout/Scout.readme.info
Scout.info
@end example

@item TRADEMARKS
@cindex Trademarks
All copyrights and trademarks are held by their owners.
@end table

@c =----------------------------------------------------------------------

@iftex
@chapter Before Starting
@end iftex

@node System Requirements, MUI, Copyright, Top
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section System Requirements
@cindex System Requirements

@noindent @code{Scout} only requires AmigaOS version 2.04.
The @code{identify.library} V8 is not required, but I strongly suggest to
install it to give Scout its full power.
See also @ref{Identify}.

If you want to use @code{Scout's} graphical user interface, you also have
to install @code{MUI} version 2.1 or higher.
See also @ref{MUI, MUI and where you can get it}.

The TCP/IP features of @code{Scout} are only available, if you
have installed the version 4.0 of @code{AmiTCP}.
See also @ref{AmiTCP, AmiTCP and where you can get it}.

@node MUI, Identify, System Requirements, System Requirements
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section MUI - MagicUserInterface
@cindex MUI
@cindex MagicUserInterface

@example
        @copyright{} Copyright 1992-97 by Stefan Stuntz
@end example

MUI is a system to generate and maintain graphical user interfaces.
With the aid of a preferences program, the user of an application has
the ability to customize the outfit according to his personal taste.

MUI is distributed as shareware. To obtain a complete package
containing lots of examples and more information about registration
please look for a file called @file{muiXXusr.lha} (XX means the latest
version number) on your local bulletin boards or on public domain
disks.

If you want to register directly, feel free to send DM 30.- or
US$ 20.- to

@example
                   Stefan Stuntz
              Eduard-Spranger-Stra@ss{}e 7
                   80935 M@"unchen
                      GERMANY
@end example


@node Identify, AmiTCP, MUI, System Requirements
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Identify
@cindex Identify

@example
        Copyright @copyright{} 1996-97 Richard K@"orber
@end example

@code{Identify} is a Shared Library that decodes expansion IDs, guru codes
and library functions, and identifies your system.

@code{Identify} is FreeWare. You can find a complete package in the AmiNet
(@file{util/libs/Identify.lha}) or on the author's home page:
@code{http://www.is-koeln.de/einwohner/shred/}. To get in contact, write to
@code{shred@@chessy.aworld.de}.


@node AmiTCP, Installation, Identify, System Requirements
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section AmiTCP
@cindex AmiTCP
@cindex TCP/IP

@code{AmiTCP} is a TCP/IP protocol stack for the Amiga. The demo
version 4.0 (or higher) should be available in greater public
domain collections or on the AmiNet. Ask your preferred Amiga
dealer.  =:^)


@node Installation, Using Scout, AmiTCP, Top
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@heading Installing Scout
@cindex Installation

You only have to copy the program @code{scout} to your favourite directory,
and @file{identify.library} to @file{libs:}. Then you can start it.


@node Using Scout, Allocations, Installation, Top
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@chapter How to use Scout
@cindex Using Scout

This chapter describes the usage of @code{Scout} through its graphical
user interface. This graphical user interface is based on the
@code{Magic User Interface} (@code{MUI}) and @code{MUI} have to be
installed in your system, if you want to use @code{Scout} trough
windows and so on.

If you don't like @code{MUI}, you should see @ref{Scout without MUI}.

@cindex Main Window

@ifinfo
@ifset guide
@noindent If you start the program, you will get the main window with these Gadgets:
@example
 @ref{Allocations}
 @ref{Assigns}
 @ref{BoopsiClasses}
 @ref{Commodities}
 @ref{Devices}
 @ref{Expansions}
 @ref{Fonts}
 @ref{InputHandlers}
 @ref{Interrupts}
 @ref{Libraries}
 @ref{Locks}
 @ref{LowMemory}
 @ref{Memory}
 @ref{Mounted Devs}
 @ref{Ports}
 @ref{Resident Cmds}
 @ref{Residents}
 @ref{Resources}
 @ref{ScreenMode}
 @ref{Semaphores}
 @ref{System}
 @ref{Tasks}
 @ref{Timer}
 @ref{Vectors}
 @ref{Windows}
 @ref{Patches}
 @ref{Catalogs}
 @ref{AudioModes}
@end example

Every gadget you see represents a certain kind of system structures.
@ignore
@end ifset
If you start the program you will see the main window which includes
many gadgets.  Each of these gadgets represents a certain kind of
system structure.

@noindent You can choose between:

Allocations, Assigns, BoopsiClasses, Commodities, Devices, Expansions, Fonts, InputHandlers, Interrupts,
Libraries, Locks, LowMemory, Memory, Mounted Devices, Ports, Resident Commands,
Residents, Resources, ScreenMode, Semaphores, System, Tasks, Timer, Vectors, Windows, Patches, Catalogs and AudioModes.
@ifset guide
@end ignore
@end ifset
@end ifinfo

@iftex
If you start the program you will see the main window which includes
many gadgets.  Each of these gadgets represents a certain kind of
system structure.

@noindent You can choose between:

Allocations, Assigns, BoopsiClasses, Commodities, Devices, Expansions, Fonts, InputHandlers, Interrupts,
Libraries, Locks, LowMemory, Memory, Mounted Devices, Ports, Resident Commands,
Residents, Resources, ScreenMode, Semaphores, System, Tasks, Timer, Vectors, Windows, Patches, Catalogs and AudioModes.
@end iftex

Click one of these gadgets and another window will be opened with a
list of the structure type that is indicated on the pressed gadget.

@quotation
@strong{Example:} Press the task gadget and you will get a window with
the list of tasks and processes.
@end quotation

You can also select these functions by pressing the underlined key
you see on each gadget or by using the right mousebutton menu.

If you wish to handle/remove a given structure, you should know what
you do.

@quotation
@strong{Warning:}
Wrong handling of the showed structures can crash your system. At the
worst you will lose your data.
@end quotation

@noindent @strong{Please note:}
You should not be surprised, if you don't find a certain detail
information in this manual, because it's to much work to explain each
element of all the structures you could see in this program.

Many books are written about these things and if you want to have more
information about them, you should have a look in the specialized
literature.


@c > Allocations
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Allocations, Assigns, Using Scout, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up
@section Allocations
@cindex Allocations
@cindex Resource allocation


This window informs about who allocated what hardware resource.


@subheading CIA

The Amiga owns two CIA to control its hardware, the keyboard and
the printer interfaces. Additionally, it contains a couple of timer.
This window shows which parts of the CIA are not yet allocated, or
which program allocated the resource.

@table @samp
@item Timer A
@itemx Timer B
This are two 16bit timer. They can also be coupled to a 32bit timer.

@item Alarm
This resource informs if a third timer reached an alarm value.

@item Serial
This is a simple serial interface. Usually, the CIA-A one's is used
for communicating with the keyboard. The CIA-B serial interface will
not be allocated in most cases.

@item Flag
This is a special control line. It is connected from the CIA-A to the
Index line of the floppy disk drives.
@end table

Note: newer DraCos do not contain the CIA chips. Thus, these hardware resources
will be emulated or are even not offered.


@subheading Ports

This are the resources for the internal parallel and serial interfaces.

@table @samp
@item Serial Port
This are the plain data transfer registers (transmitting and receiving).

@item Serial Control
This are the serial control lines, as Carrier Detect.

@item Parallel Port
This are the data lines of the parallel port.

@item Parallel Control
This are the control lines of the parallel port, as Busy or Paper Out.
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The window is updates each time you press this button.

@item Print
The window's contents are printed or saved to a file of your choice.

@item Exit
The window will be closed.
@end table
@c <
@c > Assigns
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Assigns, BoopsiClasses, Allocations, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Assigns
@cindex Assigns
@cindex Logical device names
@cindex Device names, logical

This type of structure assigns a logical name to a directory.

If you assign the directory @file{dh0:data/documents} the logical
name @file{texts:}, you will also be able to choose a file @var{filename}
in that directory with the path `texts:@var{filename}'.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item Address
Address of the assign structure.

@item Name
Logical name of a directory

@item Path
Here you will find the path of the directory.
@end table

@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
Selecting this gadget updates the list of assigns.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Assigns} to
printer or a selected file.

@item Remove
The selected assign will be removed with this function.

@item Exit
The @samp{Assigns} window will be closed.
@end table
@c <
@c > BoopsiClasses
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node BoopsiClasses, Commodities, Assigns, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up
@section BoopsiClasses
@cindex BoopsiClasses


@noindent BOOPSI classes are object oriented classes. The classes in
this list are all classes that are publically available from intuition.

@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item Address
This is the address of the @code{IClass} structure, which contains all
data of this class.

@item Objects
Shows the current amount of objects constructed by this class.

@item Subclasses
Shows the current amount of sub classes (public and private) which are
derived from this class.

@item Superclass
A pointer to the @code{IClass} structure of the parent class.

@item Dispatcher
A pointer to the dispatcher code, which realizes all methods of the class.

@item Name
The name of the class.
@end table

@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The list will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list to
printer or a selected file.

@item Remove
Removes the selected class from the system. This is only possible if
neither objects nor sub classes exist from this class.

@item More
Opens a window with further information.

@item Exit
Closes the window.
@end table
@c <
@c > Commodities
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Commodities, Devices, BoopsiClasses, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up
@section Commodities
@cindex Commodities


@noindent Commodities are small utilities. Most of them react on the
input stream, or manipulate it.

You can find some commodity examples in the @file{Tools} drawer of
your Workbench.

@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item Address
Points to the @code{CxObj} structure of the commodity, containing all
data about it.

@item ln_Type
Structure type. Usually, it will be @code{Broker}.

@item ln_Pri
Priority of the commodity broker.

@item Flags
Flags describing the broker.

@item Port
All messages of the broker are sent to this MessagePort.

@item Name
Name of the commodity.
@end table

@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Appear
@itemx Disappear
Let the selected commodity's GUI pop up or disappear. Some commodities
do not have a GUI.

@item Enable
@itemx Disable
The commodity will be enabled or disabled.

@item Kill
Let the selected commodity remove itself in a clean way.

@item ListChg
@itemx Unique
The commodity is notified that the list has been changed or that another
commodity with the same name was about to be added. This is only useful
for programmers to test out their commmodities.

@item Update
The list will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list to
printer or a selected file.

@item Priority
This function allows you to change the priority of a commodity.

@item Remove
Removes the selected commodity from the system. Please try a frienly
remove before, using @samp{Kill}. Maybe the commodity removes itself
voluntarily. =;^)

@item More
Opens a window with further information.

@item Exit
Closes the window.
@end table
@c <
@c > Devices
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Devices, Expansions, Commodities, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Devices
@cindex Devices
@cindex RPC
@cindex RAM Pointer Count

A device is --- like a library (see @ref{Libraries}) --- a collection
of functions/procedures, which have to do certain jobs.

E.g. the @file{trackdisk.device} includes functions for the floppy disk
handling.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item Address
Address of the device structure

@item ln_Name
Name of a device

@item ln_Pri
Priority of a device

@item OpenC
This element shows how often the device was opened.

@item RPC
@samp{RPC} means @samp{RAM Pointer Count} and shows how many jump
addresses of the device point into RAM.  In this way many programs ---
like the @code{setpatch} command from Commodore --- patch the system.

Many viruses patch the system in this way too, but don't panic now.
If you check your system in regular intervals with a current virus
killer, it should be out of danger.

If the whole program code of the device is located in RAM, you will
find a dash (minus sign) here, because in this case it's unimportant
how many jump addresses point into RAM.

@item ln_Type
Type of this structure (usually @samp{device})
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
If you select this gadget, the list of devices will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Devices} to
printer or a selected file.

@item Remove
The selected device will be removed with this function provided that no
program uses this device anymore and the @samp{OpenC} is zero.

@item Priority
Herewith the priority of the device can be changed.  A little window
will be opened, that asks you for a new priority.  Through the new
priority it can happen that the device gets a new place in the device
list.

@item More
Another window will be opened and you will see more informations about
the selected device.

You will have the same effect, if you doubleclick an element of the
device list.

@item Functions
All device function offsets and addresses are shown up in a subwindow.
If an appropriate @file{.fd} file exists and an @file{FD:} assign points
to its directory, then you will also see the function names.

@item Exit
The @samp{Devices} window will be closed.
@end table
@c <
@c > Expansions
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Expansions, Fonts, Devices, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Expansions
@cindex Expansions
@cindex Manufacturer
@cindex Boards
@cindex Hardware

@strong{IMPORTANT:} All Scout releases before 2.10 are not compatible
to this release! So if you want to read this list using TCP/IP, make
sure that the remote system runs the latest version as well!

This window shows a list about all your expansion boards
(graphic boards, memory expansions and so on) too.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item Address
The address of the expansion structure.

@item BoardAddr
Usually you will find the ROM of the card here.  If this address
points into RAM, the card is a memory expansion.

@item Type
Information about the board. See the More window for further information.

@item Manufacturer
Name of the board manufacturer.

@item Product
Name and class of the product.
@end table


@subheading Additional information

If you select one item from the list, the text field below shows up some
additional information:

@table @samp
@item Size
If the entry belongs to a memory expansion, the size of the memory
is displayed here.  Otherwise it's the ROM size of the card.

@item Flags
See the More window.

@item ID
ManufacturerID, assigned by Commodore, followed by the
Productnumber, assigned by the manufacturer of the board.

@item SN
Serialnumber of the card (usually unused)
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Expansions} to
printer or a selected file.

@item More
Now a window will be opened, that includes more informations about
the selected expansion board.

Doubleclick an element of the @samp{Expansions} list and you will
have the same effect.

@item Exit
The @samp{Expansions} window will be closed.
@end table


@subheading Unknown expansion boards

If you select an expansion board by selecting its list item, you will
get the name of the manufacturer and the card in the textfield you
find below the list, provided that the installed version of
@file{identify.library} knows about these data.

If no information is available in this textfield or the given
information is wrong, you should send me the following data, please.

@example
1. ManufacturerID (Manufacturer)
2. ProductID (Product)
3. Name of the company
4. Name of your expansion card
5. Function of your card
@end example

If you send me these data, the next version of @file{Identify}
will include your expansion boards. Please be as precise you can.

@c <
@c > Fonts
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Fonts, InputHandlers, Expansions, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Fonts
@cindex Fonts
@cindex ROMFONT
@cindex DISKFONT

@noindent This function will show you all fonts existing in your system.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item YSize
Vertical size of the font

@item Count
Here you can see how many programs use the font.

@item Type
@samp{ROMFONT} means the font is located in ROM and @samp{DISKFONT}
means the font was loaded from disk/harddisk.

@item Name
Name of the font
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The list of fonts will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Fonts} to
printer or a selected file.

@item Close
The font will be closed by using this function.

@item Remove
It is possible to remove a font from system, provided that no program
uses it and it's no @samp{ROMFONT}.

@item Exit
The @samp{Fonts} window disappears.
@end table

@c <
@c > InputHandlers
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node InputHandlers, Interrupts, Fonts, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section InputHandlers
@cindex InputHandlers
@cindex Input events

Input handlers take care of all user input arriving in system
(pressed keys, mouseclicks, inserted disks, etc.). They stand one
behind the other like on a production line and analyze the user input.
The input handler with the highest priority gets the `events' first
and if it doesn't know how to react on these `events', the second input
handler gets them, and so on.

Usually the system input handler has a priority of 50.  Every input
handler, that wants to get the user input before the system, must have
a higher priority.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item ln_Name
Name of the input handler

@item ln_Pri
Its priority

@item is_Data
This address points to some data needed by the input handler.

@item is_Code
The program code starts here.  If the code is located in RAM, the
address is of different color.  Otherwise you can find the code in
ROM.  Some viruses install an input handler in system.  In this case
the @samp{is_Code} address points into RAM, but many other programs uses
input handlers, too.  Don't panic!
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The list of input handlers will be updated when you select this gadget.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{InputHandlers} to
printer or a selected file.

@item Remove
Removes an input handler from system.

@item Priority
Changes the priority of an input handler.

@item Exit
The window will be closed.
@end table

@c <
@c > Interrupts
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Interrupts, Libraries, InputHandlers, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Interrupts
@cindex Interrupts
@cindex Vertical blank interrupt

Interrupts are important events the computer system has to react on.
It exists a list of interrupt routines for each interrupt type. If a
certain interrupt occurs, all these interrupt routines will be called.
During their execution the running program will be interrupted.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item ln_Name
Name of the interrupt

@item ln_Pri
Its priority

@item is_Data
At this address you find the data of the interrupt.

@item is_Code
Address of the interrupt code.  If this address points into RAM, it's
of a different color.

@item NUM
This number represents the type of event the interrupt routine is
called on.  The @samp{IntName} you find in the interrupt detail window
gives you a little bit more information about it.

@strong{Example:} Number 5 means that the interrupt is called at every
vertical blank interval.
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The list of interrupts will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Interrupts} to
printer or a selected file.

@item Remove
If the interrupt is a server you can remove it from system.  An
interrupt handler can't be removed by @code{Scout}.

If you call @samp{avail flush} and the audio.device isn't used, the
interrupt handlers of the audio.device will be removed.

@item More
Now a window will be opened that includes more details of the
interrupt.

@item Exit
Selecting this gadget will close the @samp{Interrupts} window.
@end table

@c <
@c > Libraries
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Libraries, Locks, Interrupts, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Libraries
@cindex Libraries


A library is a collection of functions/procedures, which have to do
certain jobs. E.g. the `graphics.library' includes routines for
graphical display.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item Address
Adress of the library structure

@item ln_Name
Name of a library

@item ln_Pri
Priority of a library

@item OpenC
Here you see, how often the library was opened.

@item RPC
@samp{RPC} means @samp{RAM Pointer Count} and shows how many jump
addresses of the library point into RAM.  In this way many programs
--- like the @code{setpatch} command from Commodore --- patch the
system.

Many viruses patch the system in this way too, but don't panic now.
If you check your system in regular intervals with a current virus
killer, it should be out of danger.

If the whole program code of the library is located in RAM, you will
find a dash (minus sign) here, because in this case it's unimportant
how many jump addresses point into RAM.

@item ln_Type
Type of this structure (usually @samp{library})
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Priority
Herewith the priority of the library can be changed.  A little window
will be opened, that asks you for a new priority.  Through the new
priority it can happen that the library gets a new place in the
list of libraries.

@item Close
A library must be closed by all programs, if you want to remove it
from system. In this case the @samp{OpenC} is zero.

If you select this function, you will be asked, how often you want
to close it. You can choose between @samp{Once} and @samp{All}.

Select @samp{All} and the library will so often be closed till the
@samp{OpenC} is zero.

@item Remove
The selected library will be removed with this function provided that
no program uses this library anymore and the @samp{OpenC} is zero.

Some libraries can't be removed from system without a reset.  So you
shouldn't wonder about it, if this happens.

@item Functions
All library function offsets and addresses are shown up in a subwindow.
If an appropriate @file{.fd} file exists and an @file{FD:} assign points
to its directory, then you will also see the function names.

@item Update
The list of libraries will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Libraries} to
printer or a selected file.
@item More
A window will be opened that includes more details of the library.

@item Exit
Selecting this gadget will close the @samp{library} window.
@end table

@c <
@c > Locks
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Locks, LowMemory, Libraries, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Locks
@cindex Locks


A lock structure shows you, that a program reads from or perhaps write
into a file or a directory.  With this type of structure the system
prevents, that a file will be deleted while another program gets some
data from it.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item Access
Here you can see the type of access.  This could be @samp{READ},
@samp{WRITE} or @samp{OWN}.  @samp{OWN} stands for a lock @code{Scout}
created to get the elements of this list.

@item Path
Path of the file or directory
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The list of @samp{Locks} will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Locks} to
printer or a selected file.

@item Remove
A lock will be removed through dos.library's `UnLock()' function.

@item Pattern
If you give @code{Scout} a pattern, only the locks with a matching
path will be shown.

@item Exit
The @samp{Locks} window will be closed.
@end table

@c <
@c > LowMemory
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node LowMemory, Memory, Locks, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section LowMemory
@cindex LowMemory
@cindex Handler, LowMemory

This list contains all low memory handler known to the system.

These handlers are called in their sequence if a memory allocation is about
to fail due to missing resources. The handlers try to free as much unused
memory space as possible.

`ramlib' is such a low memory handler removing unused libraries and devices
from the system's memory. It is always present.

@strong{Note:} Low memory handlers are only available since AmigaOS 3.0.
On older systems this list will always be empty.

@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item Address
Address of the low memory handler structure.

@item ln_Name
Name of the handler.

@item ln_Type
Type of the handler.

@item ln_Pri
Priority of the handler. All handlers are called in their priority sequence.

@item is_Data
A pointer to some handler's private data.

@item is_Code
A pointer to the low memory handler code.
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The list will be actualized.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list to
printer or a selected file.

@item Remove
The low memory handler will be removed from system.

@item Priority
Changes the priority of the selected handler.

@item Exit
The window will be closed.
@end table
@c <
@c > Memory
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Memory, Mounted Devs, LowMemory, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Memory
@cindex Memory


In this list you will find the segments of your memory.  At least you
will find an entry for your chip memory.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item ln_Name
Name of the memory segment (e.g. @samp{chip memory})

@item ln_Pri
Priority of memory

@item mh_Lower
First address of memory

@item mh_Upper
Last address of memory
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of the memory segments to
printer or a selected file.

@item Priority
This function allows you to change the priority of a memory segment.
The memory segment with the highest priority will be preferred from
system, provided that no certain type of memory is demanded.

@item More
Another window will be opened. This window includes more information
about the memory segment.

@item Exit
The window will be closed.
@end table

@c <
@c > Mounted Devs
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Mounted Devs, Ports, Memory, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Mounted Devices
@cindex Mounted Devices


In this list you will find all your devices like disk drives, printer
devices, etc.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item Name
Name of the device

@item Unit
Unit number

@item Heads
Number of heads

@item Cyl
Number of cylinders

@item State
The state shows you for example, if a disk is in drive.

@item DiskType
Type of a disk (e.g. OFS (OldFileSystem), FFS (FastFileSystem), @dots{})

@item Handler or Device
The handler or the device you find here has to manage the stream of
data from and to the device.
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The list will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Mounted Devs} to
printer or a selected file.

@item Exit
The window will be closed.
@end table

@c <
@c > Ports
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Ports, Resident Cmds, Mounted Devs, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Ports
@cindex Ports


@noindent Programs are able to communicate together through ports.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item Address
Here you will find the port structure.

@item ln_Name
Name of port

@item ln_Pri
Priority of port

@item mp_SigTask
The task is communicating through the port.
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The ports list will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Ports} to
printer or a selected file.

@item Remove
The port will be removed.

@item Priority
Herewith the port priority can be changed.

@item Exit
The @samp{Ports} window will be closed.
@end table

@c <
@c > Resident Cmds
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Resident Cmds, Residents, Ports, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Resident Commands
@cindex Resident Commands


This list includes all resident commands. That means all commands you
find in ROM and the commands you made `resident' through the
@code{resident} command.

@noindent Positions and sizes of their hunks you will find here, too.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item Name
Name of the command

@item UseCount
Here you can see, how often a command was being executed at the time
the list was build.

@item Lower
First address of hunk in memory

@item Upper
Last address of hunk in memory

@item Size
Size of hunk (upper - lower - 8 bytes overhead)
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The list of @samp{Resident Commands} will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Resident Commands} to
printer or a selected file.

@item Remove
The selected command will be removed with this function provided that no
program uses this command anymore and the @samp{UseCount} is zero.

@item Exit
The window disappears.
@end table
@c <
@c > Residents
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Residents, Resources, Resident Cmds, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Residents
@cindex Residents


Resident modules are reset-protected segments (code and data).  In the
list of @samp{Residents} you usually find libraries, devices and
resources.  A programmer has the possibility to make his own programs
reset-protected.  He has to initialize a resident structure for it
and then he can link the program through the kick-vectors (see
@ref{Vectors}) to the list of the resident modules.  The residents you
linked to system are usually located in RAM and are of a different
color.

If you find a resident module that points into RAM and you don't know
which program has created it, you should start your favourite virus
detector and let it check your memory.  Many viruses prefer this way
to travel around.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item Address
At this address the resident module is located.

@item ln_Name
Name of the resident module

@item rt_Pri
Priority

@item rt_IdString
Identity string of the resident module.
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The list of @samp{Residents} will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Residents} to
printer or a selected file.

@item More
Selecting this gadget opens a new window with more information about
the selected resident module.

@item Exit
The @samp{Residents} window will be closed.
@end table

@c <
@c > Resources
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Resources, ScreenMode, Residents, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Resources
@cindex Resources


Usually a resource is --- like a library (see @ref{Libraries}) --- a
collection of functions/procedures, which have to do certain jobs.

E.g. the `filesystem.resource' includes functions for the filesystem
handling.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item Address
Address of the resource structure

@item ln_Name
Name of a resource

@item ln_Pri
Priority of a resource

@item OpenC
This element shows how often the resource was opened.

@item RPC
@samp{RPC} means @samp{RAM Pointer Count} and shows how many jump
addresses of the resource point into RAM.  In this way many programs
--- like the @code{setpatch} command from Commodore --- patch the
system.

Many viruses patch the system in this way too, but don't panic now.
If you check your system in regular intervals with a current virus
killer, it should be out of danger.

If the whole program code of the resource is located in RAM, you will
find a dash (minus sign) here, because in this case it's unimportant
how many jump addresses point into RAM.

@item ln_Type
Type of this structure (usually @samp{resource})
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The list of @samp{Resources} will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Resources} to
printer or a selected file.

@item Remove
The selected resource will be removed with this function, provided that
no program uses it anymore and the @samp{OpenC} is zero.

@item Priority
Herewith the priority of the resource can be changed. A small
window will be opened, that asks you for a new priority. Through
the new priority it can happen that the resource gets a new position
in the list of resources.

@item More
Select this gadget and you get a new window with more information about
the selected resource.

@item Functions
All resource function offsets and addresses are shown up in a subwindow.
If an appropriate @file{.fd} file exists and an @file{FD:} assign points
to its directory, then you will also see the function names. Note that some
resources do not have functions.

@item Exit
The @samp{Resources} window will be closed.
@end table

@strong{Please note:} If you should find three dashes (minus signs) at
@samp{OpenC} and/or @samp{RPC}, the resource has no typical library
structure.  This happens for example at the `FileSystem.resource'.

@c <
@c > ScreenMode
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node ScreenMode, Semaphores, Resources, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section ScreenMode
@cindex ScreenMode

Screen modes define all monitor resolutions that the system is able to
show up.

You surely have already selected a screen mode before. In this list,
you will find all available modes. Most of the programs filter out some
of them when they do not meet their purpose.

@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item ModeID
An identification number, unique to each mode.

@item Width
Nominal width of the resolution in pixeln.

@item Height
Nominal height of the resolution in pixeln.

@item Depth
Maximum number of planes. The amount of colors which can be simultaneously
displayed depends on this.

@item ScreenMode
Name of the screen mode. Some modes do not have a real name, so Scout will
generate it. Then it might differ from the name generated by other programs or
screen mode requesters.
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The list will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list to
printer or a selected file.

@item More
Further information about the screen mode are displayed in a subwindow. This
includes the overscan resolutions and the frequencies. Due to an inaccuracy of
the operating system, the real frequencies might be a little bit different to
those displayed.

@item Exit
The window will be closed.
@end table
@c <
@c > Semaphores
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Semaphores, System, ScreenMode, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Semaphores
@cindex Semaphores


The use of semaphores is a way of single-threading critical
sections.  For example only one program is allowed to use the printer
at one time, otherwise the texts would be mixed.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item ln_Name
Name of a semaphore

@item Nest
This item counts how often the semaphore has been obtained by the
owner task.

@item Queue
This counter shows you, how many programs want to obtain the
semaphore.

@item Owner
Here you will find the name of the task that owns the semaphore.
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The list of @samp{Semaphores} will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Semaphores} to
printer or a selected file.

@item Obtain
This function is used to gain access to a semaphore.  The @samp{NestCnt}
will be increased at one by this call.

@item Release
Herewith you can make a signal semaphore available to others.

@item Exit
The @samp{Semaphores} window will be closed.
@end table

@c <
@c > System
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node System, Tasks, Semaphores, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section System
@cindex System

@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Print
This function allows you to send the list to
printer or a selected file.

@item Exit
The window will be closed.
@end table


@subheading Entry items

In this window you will find some (partially technical) information
about your computer. Please excuse the ordinary look of the window,
but it is very easy to add more lines this way.

@c <
@c > Tasks
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Tasks, Timer, System, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Tasks
@cindex Tasks
@cindex Processes

In this window you find a list of all tasks and processes being in
system. Each program you start will be executed as a task or process.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item ln_Name
Name of the task/process

@item ln_Type
Type of the structure (@samp{task} or @samp{process})

@item ln_Pri
Priority of the task/process

@item NUM
If a non detaching program was started from shell, you will find here
the number of the process. Programs you started from Workbench have a
dash here.

@item State
Here you see the state of the task or process. You will find
Scout's own process on the top of the list with a @samp{run} at
this place, because this process is always running when it gets the
task list.

@samp{ready} means the task wants to work, but it's interrupted by
the execution of another task.

A task that is waiting for a certain signal is in the state
@samp{wait}. In this case it doesn't need processing time.

@item SigWait
Signalmask the task is waiting for.
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Tasks} to
printer or a selected file.

@item Freeze
With this function you freeze the selected task. It can still be found
in the list of tasks, but it gets no processing time from system.

@quotation
@strong{Warning:}
If you try to freeze tasks essential to the system like
`input.device', you should have saved all important data, cause a
RESET is the only way out!
@end quotation

@item Activate
A frozen task can be activated here.

@item CPU
Here you will find a text field and a cycle gadget. This text field
displays --- dependent on the state of the cycle gadget --- the CPU
load in percent.

For the cycle gadget you can choose between three states:
@table @samp
@item off
In this case the CPU load won't be displayed. If you select another
state, @code{Scout} will patch some system functions to calculate the
CPU load of all tasks.

@item full
If you select this state, @code{Scout} sets the real cpu load to 100%.
That means the total of the CPU loads of all tasks and processes will
be 100%. Therefore nothing will be displayed in the text field.

@item in %
@code{Scout} starts a task named @samp{ Scout's cheat task } to
calculate the real CPU load and it will be displayed in the text
field.
@end table

@item Secs
This string gadget allows you to set the intervall time for updating
of the CPU load display.

@item Update
The list will be updated.

@item Remove
A task will be removed from the list.  You should prefer the freeze
function, if you perhaps need this task again.

See also @samp{Break}!

@item Signal
If you select a signal mask, it will be send to the task.

@item Break
A signal mask that includes the signals CTRL-C and CTRL-D will be
send to the task you selected.  Many tasks and processes end, if
they receive these signals.

@item Priority
The priority of a task can be changed with this function.

@item More
Selecting this gadget will open another window that displays more
informations about the task or the process.

@item Exit
The window will be closed.
@end table

@c <
@c > Timer
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Timer, Vectors , Tasks, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up
@section Timer
@cindex Timer


This window lists all current requests of the timer.device.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item Address
Address of the IO request structure.

@item ReplyPort
Address of the port the request will be replied to.

@item Time
Time that this request will stay in this list.

@item Unit
There are two different measures: VBlank (which has less overhead) and
MicroHz (which is more accurate).

@item Task
Name of the requesting task.
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Print
This function allows you to send the list to
printer or a selected file.

@item Update
The list will be updated.

@item Exit
The window will be closed.
@end table

@c <
@c > Vectors
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Vectors, Windows, Timer, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Vectors
@cindex Vectors

@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The displayed vectors will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Vectors} to
printer or a selected file.

@item Exit
The window will be closed.
@end table

@subheading Reset Vectors

A program can make itself reset-protected by using the reset vectors.
If the vectors are unused, they have a value of zero. The programs
which use the Kick-Vectors (KickTagPtr, KickMemPtr and KickCheckSum)
can also be found in the list of resident structures.
See also @ref{Residents}.

@subheading Auto Vector Interrupts
@cindex VBR

In a computer system with a MC68000 processor you will find the seven
@samp{Auto Vector Interrupts} from address $64 to address $7c. Higher
processors (MC68010, etc.) have the VBR (Vector Base Register) that
allows you to move the interrupt table to FAST-MEM. The system will
be a little bit faster then. @code{Scout} uses the VBR if it exists.

@subheading Interrupt Vectors

Here you see 16 interrupt vectors (IntVecs). These vectors are located
in the `ExecBase' (base structure of the exec.library).

@c <
@c > Windows
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Windows, Patches, Vectors, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Windows
@cindex Windows
@cindex Screens


All screens with the windows opened on them are listed here. Screens
are of a different color as windows.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item Pos(x,y)
x and y position of the screen/window

@item Size(x,y)
x and y size of the screen/window

@item Title
Title of the screen/window
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The list will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Windows} to
printer or a selected file.

@item Close
With this function it is possible to close screens and/or windows. If
you close a screen, all windows on it will be closed too.

@item To Front
The selected screen/window will be popped to front.

@item More
If you select this gadget another window will be opened that displays
more informations about the window or the screen.

@item Exit
The window will be closed.
@end table

@c <
@c > Patches
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Patches, Catalogs, Windows, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Patches
@cindex Patches


All patches currently installed in the system are listed here.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item Library
Name of the patched resource

@item Offset
Decimal and Hex offset of the patched function

@item Function
Name of the patched function. This name is obtained from the accoring .fd file.

@item State
Current state of the patch. This can either be @samp{active}, @samp{disabled} or @samp{removed}.

@item Patcher
Name of the program that applied this patch.
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The list will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Patches} to
printer or a selected file.

@item Enable
If you select this gadget the selected (disabled) patches will be enabled again.

@item Disable
If you select this gadget the selected (enabled) patches will be disabled.
@quotation
@strong{Warning:} This is a very dangerous action!! Please read the SaferPatches documentation!
@end quotation

@item Exit
The window will be closed.
@end table

@c <
@c > Catalogs
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Catalogs, AudioModes, Patches, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Catalogs
@cindex Catalogs


All locale catalogs currently loaded are listed here.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item cat_Version
Version number of the catalog file.

@item cat_Language
Language of the catalog file.

@item cat_Name
Name of the catalog file.
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The list will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Catalogs} to
printer or a selected file.

@item Exit
The window will be closed.
@end table

@c <
@c > AudioModes
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node AudioModes, Scout and AmiTCP, Catalogs, Using Scout
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section AudioModes
@cindex AudioModes
@cindex AHI


All AHI audiomodes are listed here.


@subheading Column items

@table @samp
@item ID
ModeID of the AudioMode.

@item Name
Name of the AudioMode.

@item Bits
Bits per sample.

@item min Freq
Minimum mixing frequency.

@item max Freq
Maximum mixing frequency.
@end table


@subheading Actions

@table @samp
@item Update
The list will be updated.

@item Print
This function allows you to send the list of @samp{Patches} to
printer or a selected file.

@item More
Selecting this gadget will open another window that displays more
informations about the AudioMode.

@item Exit
The window will be closed.
@end table

@c <

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Scout and AmiTCP, Scout without MUI, AudioModes, Top
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Scout and AmiTCP

This section will show you what you have to do for using @code{Scout}
as a TCP/IP service through @code{AmiTCP}. Nearly all functions of
@code{Scout} can also be used via @code{AmiTCP}.

Now some knowledge will be assumed. If you don't know, what kind of
program @code{AmiTCP} represents, you should read @code{AmiTCP's} user's
manual before. (See also @ref{AmiTCP}.)

If you have installed @code{AmiTCP}, you can use @code{Scout} as client
and server. Except the installed programs of @code{AmiTCP} you don't need
another program for using @code{Scout} on networks.

If you want to make your computer available for other systems on the
network, you have to do following two steps:

@enumerate
@item Add the line @samp{scout 6543/tcp} to file @file{AmiTCP:db/services}.

@item Now please add the line @samp{scout stream tcp nowait root dh0:scout}
to file @file{AmiTCP:db/inetd.conf}. Make sure that the path at the
end of this line is the right path for @code{scout}.
@end enumerate

That's it! If you start @code{AmiTCP} now, your computer is available
for other systems through using the options @samp{HOST}, @samp{USER}
and @samp{PASSWORD}.

@quotation
@noindent @strong{Example:} If I want perform some actions on some system
structures of my own system for example, I have to start @code{Scout}
through something like:

@format
1> scout HOST crash.north.de USER atte PASSWORD secret
@end format
@end quotation

If you leave out option @samp{PASSWORD}, you will be asked for the
correct password through the @samp{password:} prompt. In this case
nobody can see your password, because it won't be displayed in shell.

If you don't use option @samp{USER}, @code{AmiTCP} takes the username
that is actually available in system.

The usage of @code{AmiTCP} doesn't provide the installation of
@code{MUI}. All of @code{Scout's} shell commands (see also @ref{Commands})
can be used via network through @code{AmiTCP}.

@quotation
@noindent @strong{Example:} If I want to get the task list of my
system, I have to use something like:

@format
1> scout HOST crash.north.de USER atte PASSWORD secret Tasks
@end format
@end quotation

You and all other users must always identify themselves through
their usernames (option @samp{USER}) and their passwords
(option @samp{PASSWORD}).
It's also possible to allow or deny certain systems the usage of
some services through the file @file{AmiTCP:db/inet.access}. See also
the user's manual of @code{AmiTCP}.

If you want to get more informations about the implemented options and
commands, you should also see @ref{Options} and @ref{Commands}.

@strong{NOTE:} Please take care that the remote system runs the latest
Scout version as well, to avoid incompatibilities.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Scout without MUI, Options, Scout and AmiTCP, Top
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Scout without MUI

Nearly all through the graphical user interface available functions of
@code{Scout} are also available via shell. Therefore you don't really
need @code{MUI} for using @code{Scout}. But if you want to use
@code{Scout's} graphical user interface, you must have @code{MUI} in
your system.


@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@c                                node
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Options, Commands, Scout without MUI, Top
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@chapter Options
@cindex Options
@cindex Tool Types
@cindex Command Line Options

There are some options for @code{Scout} which you can use, when you
start the program.  The following options are available from shell and
as tool types from Workbench.

@table @samp
@item ICONIFIED
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{ICONIFIED}
@end format

If this option is activ, @code{Scout} starts iconified.

@item PORTNAME
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{PORTNAME}=@var{portname}
@end format

The name of Scout's ARexx port can be changed into @var{portname}.
Without this option the ARexx port is called `SCOUT.X'. The @samp{X}
stands for a decimal number that will be incremented, if a so called
port already exists.

@item TOOLPRI
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{TOOLPRI}=@var{value}
@end format

This option allows you to change the priority of Scout's process
into @var{value}.

@item STARTUP
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{STARTUP}=@var{command}
@end format

The variable @var{command} should be an ARexx script or a single ARexx
command. Both (script or command) will be executed, when @code{Scout}
will be started. In this way you can open more than only the main
window by starting. Try for example the command @samp{OpenWindow Tasks}
and you will get two windows by starting (the main window and the
task list window).

(See also @ref{Commands, ARexx port, ARexx port}.)

@item INTERVALTIME
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{INTERVALTIME}=@var{seconds}
@end format

This options allows you to save your preferred update time for
the list of tasks.
(See also @ref{Tasks, Secs, Secs}.)

@item CPUDISPLAY
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{CPUDISPLAY}=@var{value}
@end format

Through the variable @var{value} you can select the state of the
@samp{CPU} cycle gadget you find in the @samp{Tasks} window.
(See also @ref{Tasks, CPU, CPU}.)

@itemize @bullet
@item @samp{1}  means  @samp{CPU: full}
@item @samp{2}  means  @samp{CPU: in %}
@end itemize

@item HOST
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{HOST}=@var{hostname}
@end format

This options allows you to specify the system (@var{hostname}) you
want to manipulate via network through @code{AmiTCP}.

@item USER
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{USER}=@var{username}
@end format

You have to use this option to identify yourself by using @code{Scout}
as a TCP/IP service.

@item PASSWORD
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{PASSWORD}=@var{password}
@end format

Without a password @code{Scout} can't connect to another system via
network. This option allows you to set the correct password.

@item COMMAND
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{COMMAND}=@var{commandline}
@end format

Nearly all of @code{Scout's} implemented functions are available from
shell through this option. You don't need the @samp{COMMAND} key to
use this option. (See also @ref{Commands}.)

@item SINGLEWINDOWS
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{SINGLEWINDOWS}
@end format

Some users don't like to handle the many windows of Scout. This option
solves the problem of too many windows. If this option is selected,
only one list window and only one detail window is opened at a time.

@end table


@node Commands, Updates, Options, Top
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@chapter Scout's commands via ARexx and shell
@cindex ARexx
@cindex Command

@noindent @code{Scout} supports two kinds of commands:

@enumerate
@item commands only available from shell
@item commands available from ARexx and shell
@end enumerate

@cindex ARexx port
@subheading ARexx port

It's a feature of @code{MUI} to give each application its own ARexx port.
Therefore @code{Scout} also has an ARexx port that usually has the
name @samp{SCOUT.X}. The @samp{X} stands for a decimal number that will be
incremented, if a so called port already exists.

You will find the name of @code{Scout's} ARexx port in the window you
get, if you select the @samp{Project/About} menu.

@cindex Tasknames
@subheading Using tasknames:

If a task or a process was started from shell and hasn't detached
itself, you will find the name of the command being executed, where
usually the taskname is displayed.  The real name of those tasks
usually is something like @samp{Background CLI}, but such a taskname
isn't useful.

@quotation
@strong{Example:} If you start a non detaching task like
@samp{DH0:Debug/Sushi} from shell, you will see @samp{DH0:Debug/Sushi}
as taskname.
@end quotation

Some ARexx commands need a taskname as parameter. You have to
select those from CLI started self detaching tasks by using their
command names like @code{Scout} displays them in the lists of tasks.

@section Commands only available from shell

@table @samp
@item Help
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{Help}
@end format

This command is the most important one and it doesn't need parameters.
If you try @code{Help}, @code{Scout} prints a list of all available
commands to shell.  =:^)
@end table

Now 18 commands follow. These commands allow the user to get all
lists of system structures from shell. Therefore you only need
to install @code{MUI} for using @code{Scout's} graphical user
interface.

Each of the following commands has a shortened form that stands behind
the command in parentheses.

@quotation
@code{Allocations} (a), @code{BoopsiClasses} (b),
@code{Commands} (c), @code{Devices} (d),
@code{Timer} (e), @code{Fonts} (f),
@code{Assigns} (g), @code{InputHandlers} (h),
@code{Interrupts} (i), @code{LowMemory} (j),
@code{Commodities} (k), @code{Libraries} (l),
@code{Memory} (m), @code{Mounts} (n),
@code{Locks} (o), @code{Ports} (p),
@code{Residents} (r), @code{Semaphores} (s),
@code{Tasks} (t), @code{Resources} (u),
@code{Vectors} (v), @code{Windows} (w),
@code{Expansions} (x), @code{System} (y) and
@code{ScreenMode} (z).
@end quotation

@quotation
@noindent @strong{Example:} To get the list of ports, you only have to
use @samp{scout ports} or @samp{scout p} from shell.
@end quotation

@section Commands available from ARexx and shell

@table @samp
@item FindTask
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{FindTask} @var{task}
@end format

This command allows you to check, if task @var{task} exists in
system or not. The result is the address of the task @var{task},
if it has been found. @var{task} can be the name or the address of
a task.

@item FreezeTask
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{FreezeTask} @var{task}
@end format

The task @var{taskname} will be frozen. After that it will still be
found in system's task list, but then it doesn't need processing time.
You can choose the name or the address of a task for @var{task}.

@item ActivateTask
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{ActivateTask} @var{task}
@end format

If task @var{task} was frozen, it will be activated, otherwise an
error occured. @var{task} is again a task's name or an address.

@item RemoveTask
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{RemoveTask} @var{task}
@end format

This command removes the task @var{task}. It's lost forever.

@item BreakTask
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{BreakTask} @var{task}
@end format

@code{Scout} sends the task @var{task} a certain signal mask
that includes the signals CTRL-C and CTRL-D. Many programs support
these signals and finish themselves, if they receive one of them.

@item SignalTask
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{SignalTask} @var{task} @var{hexsignal}
@end format

This command allows you to send a signal @var{hexsignal} to the task
@var{task}. The signal must specified as a hexadecimal number.

@strong{Example:}
@example
SendSignal 'scout' 0x001000
@end example
sends task @samp{scout} a CTRL-C and after that @code{Scout} ends.

@item SetTaskPri
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{SetTaskPri} @var{task} @var{priority}
@end format

The task @var{task} gets a new priority (@var{priority}).

@item RemovePort
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{RemovePort} @var{port}
@end format

The port @var{port} will be removed from @code{Scout}. @var{port}
can be the name of a port or its address.

@item GetLockNumber
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{GetLockNumber} @var{lockpattern}
@end format

This command returns the number of locks which have paths matching
to the pattern @var{lockpattern}.

@strong{Example:} Use the command
@example
GetLockNumber 'WORK:Utilities/#?'
@end example
and you will know, how many locks are currently used for files in the
directory @file{WORK:Utilities/}.

@item RemoveLocks
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{RemoveLocks} @var{lockpattern}
@end format

Use this command and all locks which have paths matching to the pattern
@var{lockpattern} will be removed.
(See also @code{GetLockNumber}.)

@item RemoveLock
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{RemoveLock} @var{lockaddress}
@end format

The lock at adress @var{lockaddress} will be removed.

@item FindNode
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{FindNode} @var{nodetype} @var{nodename}
@end format

This command allows you to find a certain node. You only have
to know its name (@var{nodename}) and its type (@var{nodetype}).

@var{Nodetype} can have following values:  @samp{LIBRARY},
@samp{DEVICE}, @samp{RESOURCE}, @samp{MEMORY}, @samp{SEMAPHORE},
@samp{PORT} or @samp{INPUTHANDLER}.

@strong{Example:} If you want to get the address of the
@samp{disk.resource} you must use:
@example
FindNode RESOURCE 'disk.resource'
@end example

@item GetPriority
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{GetPriority} @var{nodeaddress}
@end format

This command allows you to check the priority of a certain node
structure. This includes all following structure types:  tasks,
libraries, devices, resources, ports, residents, input handlers,
interrupts, semaphores and the elements of the memory list.

You only have to know the address (@var{nodeaddress}) of that
structure.

@strong{Example:} The following ARexx commands store the priority of
your chip memory in the variable @samp{pri}:
@example
FindName MEMORY 'chip memory'
addr = result
GetPriority addr
pri = result
@end example

@item SetPriority
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{SetPriority} @var{nodetype} @var{nodename}
@end format

If you want to change the priority of the node @var{nodename}, you can
use this command.  Again @var{nodetype} can have following values:
@samp{LIBRARY}, @samp{DEVICE}, @samp{RESOURCE}, @samp{MEMORY},
@samp{SEMAPHORE}, @samp{PORT} or @samp{INPUTHANDLER}.

@item CloseLibrary
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{CloseLibrary} @var{library}
@end format

The library @var{library} will be closed once. @var{library} can be
the name of the library or its address.

@item RemoveLibrary
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{RemoveLibrary} @var{library}
@end format

The library @var{library} will be removed, if no program uses it.

@item RemoveDevice
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{RemoveDevice} @var{device}
@end format

The selected device @var{device} will be removed. For @var{device}
use the name or the address of the device.

@item RemoveResource
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{RemoveResource} @var{resource}
@end format

The resource @var{resource} will be removed.

@item ObtainSemaphore
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{ObtainSemaphore} @var{semaphore}
@end format

This command allows you to obtain the given semaphore. @var{semaphore}
can be the semaphore's name or address.

@item ReleaseSemaphore
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{ReleaseSemaphore} @var{semaphore}
@end format

The semaphore @var{semaphore} will be once released.

@item RemoveSemaphore
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{RemoveSemaphore} @var{semaphore}
@end format

You are able to remove the semaphore @var{semaphore} by using this
command.

@item RemoveInputhandler
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{RemoveInputhandler} @var{inputhandler}
@end format

The input handler @var{inputhandler} selected through name or address
will be removed.

@item FindResident
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{FindResident} @var{resident}
@end format

This command returns the address of the resident structure
@var{resident}.

@item FindInterrupt
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{FindInterrupt} @var{interruptname}
@end format

The address of the interrupt @var{interruptname} will be returned.

@item RemoveInterrupt
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{RemoveInterrupt} @var{interruptname}
@end format

The interrupt you have selected through @var{interruptname} will be
removed.

@item FlushDevs
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{FlushDevs}
@end format

All not used devices will be removed. The used memory will be freed.

@item FlushFonts
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{FlushFonts}
@end format

If a diskfont is in memory, but no program uses it, it will be
removed.

@item FlushLibs
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{FlushLibs}
@end format

All not used libraries will be removed. The used memory will be freed.

@item FlushAll
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{FlushAll}
@end format

This function includes @code{FlushDevs}, @code{FlushFonts} and
@code{FlushLibs}. All not used devices, libraries and fonts
will be removed and the used memory will be freed.

@item ClearResetVectors
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{ClearResetVectors}
@end format

The six reset vectors will be cleared, if you select this function
(see @ref{Vectors}).

@item PopToFront
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{PopToFront} @var{title}
@end format

This command allows you to pop a screen or window to front. You
only have to know its (@var{title}).

@item CloseWindow
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{CloseWindow} @var{windowtitle}
@end format

This command closes the window that is specified through its title
(@var{windowtitle}).

@item CloseScreen
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{CloseScreen} @var{screentitle}
@end format

If you select this command, the screen (@var{screentitle}) will be
closed with all its windows.

@item CloseFont
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{CloseFont} @var{address}
@end format

The font at address @var{address} will be closed once.

@item RemoveFont
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{RemoveFont} @var{address}
@end format

This command removes the font at address @var{address}, if it's
not used by any program.

@item RemoveCommand
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{RemoveCommand} @var{address}
@end format

@code{Scout} makes the resident command at address @var{address}
not resident.

@item RemoveAssign
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{RemoveAssign} @var{name}
@end format

With this command you're able to remove the assign @var{name}.

@item RemoveAssignList
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{RemoveAssignList} @var{name} @var{address}
@end format

This command removes the directory at address @var{address} from
assign @var{name}. You will find the address of that directory in
the list of assigns.

@item PrintList
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{PrintList} @var{listcharacter} @var{filename}
@end format

This command allows you to print a list (specified by the
listcharacter) into the file @var{filename}.

@strong{Example:}
@example
PrintList t 'ram:tasklist'
@end example
will print the list of tasks into the file 'ram:tasklist'.

@item OpenWindow
@format
@strong{Usage:} @code{OpenWindow} @var{windowid}
@end format

All windows you get if you select a gadget of @code{Scout's} main window,
can be opened with this command.  The @var{windowid} is the same text you
find on the main window gadgets.

@strong{Example:}
@example
OpenWindow 'Mounted Devs'
@end example
will open the window with the list of mounted devices.

@item CxAppear
@itemx CxDisappear
@itemx CxEnable
@itemx CxDisable
@itemx CxKill
@itemx CxListChg
@itemx CxUnique
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{Cx...} @var{name}
@end format

Sends the command to the commodity named @var{name}.

@item RemoveCx
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{RemoveCx} @var{commodity}
@end format

Removes the appropriate commodity from the list. Please consider this as
`emergency break'. Use it only if @code{CxKill} failed.

@item SetCxPri
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{SetCxPri} @var{commodity} @var{priority}
@end format

Sets the priority of a commodity.

@item RemoveClass
@format
@strong{Format:} @code{RemoveClass} @var{class}
@end format

The appropriate BOOPSI class is removed, if no objects and no subclasses
are existing.


@end table


@node Updates, Credits, Commands, Top
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@iftex
@unnumbered Appendix A
@end iftex

@section How to get updates
@cindex Updates

The newest version of @code{Scout} should always be available
on AmiNet or Public Domain collections, which are up-to-date.

You can also find the latest version on my home page:
@example
    http://www.is-koeln.de/einwohner/shred/
@end example

@node Credits, Author Info, Updates, Top
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section Credits
@cindex Credits

Now we have to thank some people for supporting the development
of @code{Scout} on many different kinds:

@itemize @bullet
@item Klaus `gizmo' Weber, he was always available to Atte and his
many questions (not a few) during the programming of @code{Scout}.

@item Christian `cosinus' Stelter, he gave the permission to use
his many manuals.

@item Stefan Stuntz for his great @samp{MagicUserInterface}

@item all (hopefully still) bug reporting and feature requesting people:
Kai `wusel' Siering, Martin Hauner, Peter Meyer, Karl `Charly' Skibinski,
Michael `Mick' Hohmann, Thore B@"ockelmann, Bernardo Innocenti, Daniel Lundberg, @dots{}

 and last but not least
@item all the others we've forgotten for reporting bugs, sending
expansion boards data and so on.
@end itemize

@node Author Info, Index, Credits, Top
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@section How to reach the author
@cindex Author Info

If you have questions, suggestions, bug reports or anything else, you
can contact me at:

@example

                    Richard K@"orber
                    Hornstra@ss{}e 20
               51465 Bergisch Gladbach
                     - Germany -

            E-Mail: shred@@chessy.aworld.de
                    richard.koerber@@koeln.netsurf.de

@end example

Send E-Mails whenever possible..

If you want to contact Andreas Gelhausen, you can reach him at:

@example

                  Andreas Gelhausen
                  Graf Spee Str. 23b
                  26123 Oldenburg
                     - Germany -

             E-Mail: atte@@crash.north.de

@end example

Please do not contact him for bug reports, suggestions and similar. But
if you feel the urge to send a gift, then he is the right address!

@noindent That's it!  =:^)

@c ===================================================================
@c ==================== The End of the Document ======================
@c ===================================================================
@node Index, , Author Info, Top
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@contents
@bye
