\input amigatexinfo
\input texinfo @c -*- Texinfo -*-

@ignore

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

 This is the documentation-source for the Mailtext MUI-CustomClass package
                            in TexInfo format.

 Mailtext - An MUI Custom Class for eMessage display
 Copyright (C) 1996-2001 by Olaf Peters
 Copyright (C) 2002-2006 by Mailtext Open Source Team

 GCC & OS4 Portage by Alexandre Balaban

 This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
 modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
 License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
 version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

 This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
 Lesser General Public License for more details.

 You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
 License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
 Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA

 Mailtext OpenSource project :  http://sourceforge.net/projects/mailtext/

 $Id: MailtextE.texi,v 1.11 2006/08/21 15:42:14 paraxenic Exp $

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

@end ignore

@c %**start of header
@setfilename Mailtext.doc

@include rev/MailtextVersions.texi

@setchapternewpage on

@iftex
@afourpaper
@end iftex
@c %**end of header

@c /// "TexInfo-Header stuff"
@set xrefstring see
@set Xrefstring See
@set Footnotestring Footnotes
@set Chapterstring Chapter
@set Appendixstring Appendix
@set Sectionstring Section
@set sectionstring section
@set pagestring page

@titlepage
@title Mailtext
@subtitle A MUI customclass package for displaying electronic messages.
@subtitle
@subtitle Version @value{VER}.@value{REV} (@value{DATE})
@author by Olaf Peters
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

Copyright @copyright{} 1996-2001 Olaf Peters.
Copyright @copyright{} 2002-2006 by Mailtext Open Source Team

For detailed information on the copyright, see @ref{Copyright}.

@end titlepage
@c \\\

@ifinfo
@c /// "Top"
@node Top,,,
@top
@center Mailtext @value{VER}.@value{REV} (@value{DATE})

@center by Olaf Peters

@center An MUI customclass package for displaying mail messages.


@menu
* Overview::           What is Mailtext and what features does it have?

* Copyright::          Legal stuff @dots{}
* Author::             How to reach the Mailtext developers

* Installation::       Installing Mailtext
* Configuration::      Configuring Mailtext
* FAQ::                Frequently Asked Questions

* Developers::         A note for developers who want to use Mailtext
                        in their own applications.

* Applications::        Reference applications that use Mailtext.

* Thanks::             The author likes to thank @dots{}
* History::            What's new with this version?
* Future::             What's planned for future releases?
* MUI::                About the MagicUserInterface

* Concept index::
@end menu

@c \\\
@end ifinfo

@c /// "Overview"
@node Overview,,Top,Top
@chapter Overview
@cindex Features

What is Mailtext?

Mailtext is a Custom Class for the Magic User Interface (MUI) by Stefan
Stuntz.

It should be used whenever a MUI program has to display electronic
messages, i.e. eMail or News.

In "e-messages", you will often find words enclosed i.e. by '*' oder '_'
like this: *bold*, _underlined_. By using Mailtext instead of MUI's
Floattext-Class the text enclosed by these attributecharacters will be
printed with the appropriated textstyle, so

@itemize @bullet

@item *text* will be printed boldface

@item /text/ will be printed italics

@item _text_ will be underlined

@item #text# will be printed in another color, which can be freely configured in MUI-Prefs/Mailtext.

@end itemize

The processing of attributecharacters will be disabled if Mailtext
recognises uuencoded files, signatures, PGP-Signatures, -Keys and
-Messages.

But that's not the only thing Mailtext can do:

It may also highlight quoted textpassages --- with different colors for up
to five levels of quote.

Uniform Resource Locators (URL) are recognized by Mailtext and you can
configure an action that will be triggered whenever the user doubleclicks an
URL, i.e. start an AmigaDOS-Command or an ARexx-Script to forward the URL
to your favorite Webbrowser.

Signature marks, i.e. '@minus{}@minus{} ', can be replaced by a horizontal
line, so the signature appears more separated from the messagetext.

Most features of Mailtext may be @ref{Configuration,configured} to fit your
needs.

@c \\\
@c /// "Copyright"
@node Copyright,,,Top
@chapter Copyright

Mailtext is copyright @copyright{} 1996-2001 by Olaf Peters.

Mailtext is Copyright @copyright{} 2002-2006 by the Mailtext Open Source Team.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA

Mailtext OpenSource project: http://sourceforge.net/projects/mailtext/

@c \\\
@c /// "Author"
@node Author,,,Top
@chapter Author
@cindex Author
@cindex Address
@cindex Bugreports
@cindex WWW
@cindex WorldWideWeb
@cindex eMail
@cindex Mail

Send bugreports, featurerequest etc. here:

@itemize @bullet
@item SnailMail:

@example
Members of the Mailtext Open Source Team listed on the
Members page at http://sourceforge.net/projects/mailtext.
@end example

@item E-Mail:

@example
Members of the Mailtext Open Source Team listed on the
Members page at http://sourceforge.net/projects/mailtext.
@end example

@item World Wide Web:

@example
http://sourceforge.net/projects/mailtext
@end example

@item The Mailtext homepage:

@example
http://mailtext.sourceforge.net
@end example

@end itemize

@c \\\

@c /// "Installation"
@node Installation,,,Top
@chapter Installation
@cindex Requirements
What you need to use the Mailtext package:

@itemize @bullet
@item a minimum of Kickstart and Workbench 2.04, Workbench 2.1 for localization.
@item a minimum of MUI 3.6
@item NList.mcc, NListview.mcc and NListviews.mcp by Gilles Masson.
@item Crawling.mcc by Klaus Melchior for Mailtext.mcp (optional,
Mailtext.mcp will also work without).
@end itemize

If the your Mailtext package includes an installer script you can install
Mailtext by double-clicking the "MCC-Install" icon and the required files
will be installed automatically.

Alternatively, you can copy the Mailtext(cpu).mcc and Mailtext(cpu).mcc that
matches your processor or operating system from the MCC_Mailtext/Libs/MUI
directory to your MUI:Libs/MUI directory. The Locale and developer files can
also be copied to the appropriate directories.

@c \\\
@c /// "Configuration"
@node Configuration,,,Top
@chapter Configuration
@cindex Chars page
@cindex Distances page
@cindex URLs page

Most features of Mailtext may be configured to fit your needs in the
Mailtext section of MUI-Prefs. All elements make use of MUI's Bubblehelp
system, so just some essential notes can be found here.

@menu
* Chars page ::        Special characters
* Distances page ::    Attribute- and Quotedistance
* URLs page ::         Uniform Resource Locators
@end menu

@c /// "Chars page"
@node Chars page,,,Configuration
@section Chars page
@cindex Introducing Char
@cindex Char, Introducing
@cindex Terminating Char
@cindex Char, Terminating

An important thing to know when configuring Mailtext is what is meant with
"introducing char" and "terminating char", so please have a look at the
following example (let + be one of the attribute characters '*', '/', '_' or '#'):

@example
   +Text+
   ^    ^
   |    |
   |    +- the terminating char
   |
   +- the introducing char
@end example

With this is mind, it should be pretty easy to configure Mailtext to your
needs.
@c \\\
@c /// "Distances page"
@node Distances page,,,Configuration
@section Distances page
@cindex Quote distance
@cindex Distance, Quote
@cindex Quotelevels

The quote distance configures Mailtext's recognition of quoted
textpassages.

However, with multiple quotelevels it's a little more tricky, so let's have
a look at the following example:

@example
XYZ> ABC> Quoted text
   ^    ^
123412345
@end example

With a quote distance <= 3 the text will not be highlighted at all, as the
first quote character is the fourth character of the line.

With a quote distance of 4 the whole text will be highlighted with the
level 1 color, level 2 is not recognized.

With a quote distance >= 5, also the second quotelevel would be recognized, as
the second quotechar is the fifth charater behind the first quote character.

Too complicated? I don't hope so @dots{} ;-)
@c \\\
@c /// "URLs page"
@node URLs page,,,Configuration
@section URLs page
@cindex WWW
@cindex World Wide Web
@cindex AmigaDOS command
@cindex URL action command
@cindex ARexx
@cindex Command, URL action
@cindex Command, AmigaDOS

The URL action is a normal AmigaDOS command as i.e. entered in a Shell
window. So you have to use 'rx' to start ARexx scripts.

The first @samp{%s} in the URL action command will be replaced by the URL
you have double clicked.

Mailtext recognizes the following URLs (described in RFC 1738):

@itemize @asis
@item @samp{file://} -- Host-specific file names
@item @samp{ftp://} -- File Transfer protocol
@item @samp{gopher://} -- The Gopher protocol
@item @samp{http://} -- Hypertext Transfer Protocol (World Wide Web)
@item @samp{mailto:} -- Electronic mail address
@item @samp{news:} -- USENET news
@item @samp{nntp://} -- USENET news using NNTP access
@item @samp{prospero://} -- Prospero Directory Service
@item @samp{telnet://} -- Reference to interactive sessions
@item @samp{wais://} -- Wide Area Information Servers
@end itemize

However you cannot configure an action string for each URL type as this can
be done by a "wrapper" ARexx script.

@c \\\

@c \\\
@c /// "FAQ"
@node FAQ,,,Top
@chapter Frequently Asked Questions
@cindex FAQ
@cindex Mousepointer
@cindex Context menu
@cindex Signatures
@cindex Multiple attributes

@samp{Question}: In MUI-Prefs/Mailtext I have selected "Separate
Signatures" on the @samp{Misc.} page but it doesn't seem to work. Why?

@samp{Answer}: Most likely the signature separators '@minus{}@minus{} ',
'@minus{}@minus{}' or '@minus{}@minus{}@minus{}' are part of your disable
pattern (see @samp{Patterns} page). Remove them from the pattern and
everything will work fine. In pre 3.0 versions of Mailtext the signature
separators '@minus{}@minus{} ' and '@minus{}@minus{}@minus{}' were part of
the disable pattern by default.

@center @samp{* * *}

@samp{Question}: Multiple attributes, i.e. _*/This/*_, don't seem to work.
Why?

@samp{Answer}: I guess you have (again) been using a pre 3.0 Mailtext
version? You should add the characters *_#/ to the whitespace- and
terminating-chars and remove them from the nonintroducing-chars (see
@samp{Chars} page in MUI-Prefs/Mailtext).

@center @samp{* * *}

@samp{Question}: When the mousepointer is above the Mailtext, I cannot
access the application's menus via keyboard shortcuts. I have to move the
mouse outside the Mailtext's area. What's that?

@samp{Answer}: This is a MUI problem/feature. If an object has a context
menu and the mousepointer is above that object, the application's menus
cannot be accessed via shortcuts. Perhaps a future MUI will change this,
MUI 3.8 --- the current version while writing this --- still has this
behaviour. That's the reason, why Mailtext's contextmenu can be switched
off in MUI-Prefs/Mailtext on the @samp{Misc.} page.

@c \\\

@c /// "Developers"
@node Developers,,,Top
@chapter Developers
@cindex Developers
@cindex C
@cindex Oberon
@cindex Modula-2

If you consider using Mailtext in one of your own programs, please have a
look at the @ref{Copyright,copyright} first.

You are welcome to use Mailtext in your own projects and the needed
headerfiles for C are included in this archive. Oberon and Modula-2
headerfiles are @strong{only} available in previous Mailtext release
archives.

All available developer material is included in the release archive.

@c \\\
@c /// "Applications"
@node Applications,,,Top
@chapter Applications
@cindex IntuiNews
@cindex GoodNews
@cindex MUIReaderX

The following public applications are currently using Mailtext:

@table @samp

@item IntuiNews v1.4a

by Matthias Scheler and Markus Stipp (Freeware).

A newsreader for the Universal Message System (UMS). Available from Aminet
in comm/ums.

@item GoodNews v1.5

by Jean-Marc Xiume' and Jerome Fleury (Freeware).

Another newsreader for the Universal Message System (UMS). GoodNews is
based upon the IntuiNews v1.4 sources. Available from Aminet in comm/ums.

@item MUIReaderX v0.45

by Robin Vermaat (Freeware).

An offline message reader/writer for Xenolink BBS Systems. MUIReaderX is a
GUI to Xenolink's message base and can be compared with programs like Spot
and Foozle. Available from Aminet in comm/xeno.

@item Jabberwocky v1.7

opensource project at SourceForge.net

A Jabber instant messaging client program for the Amiga. Available from
Aminet and the Jabberwocky homepage.

@end table

@c \\\

@c /// "Thanks"
@node Thanks,,,Top
@chapter Thanks
@cindex Thanks
The Mailtext OpenSource team would like to thank the following people:

@table @samp

@item Olaf Peters
for original development of Mailtext and making Mailtext an open source
project so that development can continue.

@item Stefan Stuntz
for that wonderful environment called "Magic User Interface" (@ref{MUI}).

@item Gilles Masson
for NList.mcc, NListview.mcc and NListviews.mcp, as these classes made so
many new Mailtext features in v3.0 possible.

@item Kai Hofmann
for the great MCC-Install installer script.

@item Matthias Scheler
for the bugreports and for immediately using Mailtext in IntuiNews, a great
newsreader for the Universal Message System (UMS)

@item Klaus 'kmel' Melchior
for Crawling.mcc and the help with MUI customclasses.

@item Andreas Baum
for inspirations and bughunting!

@item Frank Duerring
for the Oberon interfaces.

@item Ole Friis
for the danish catalog translation for Mailtext v1.0 and the bugreports.

@item Everyone involved in the Mailtext translation:
  @table @strong

  @item Mailtext v1.0 translators
Peter Eriksson (swedish),
Paolo Menichetti (italian),
Petter E. Stokke (norwegian).

  @item ATO translators
Daniel Widerström (swedish),
Francis Labrie (french),
Frederico Borges (portuguese),
Lars Svoldgaard (danish),
Ljubomir Jankovic (serbian),
Marcin Orlowski (polish),
Marko Honkanen (finnish),
Oleg Sergeev (russian),
Pascal Eeftinck (dutch),
Samuel Aguilera (spanish),
Simone Polacci (italian) and
Vit Sindlar (czech).

  @item ATO proofreaders
Alexandre Gabriel (portuguese),
Carsten Stach (german),
Ciro Scognamiglio (italian),
Fredrik Rambris (swedish),
Jérôme Fleury (french),
Leon Woestenberg (dutch),
Martin Clausen (danish),
Mika Lundell (finnish) and
Radim Demel (czech).

  @item ATO project coordinator
Mika Lundell

  @end table

@item All currently registered Mailtext-Developers
Bodo Schulz,
David Rydh,
Jason Weber,
Jerome Fleury,
Johnny Tevessen,
Klaus Melchior,
Magnus Heino,
Marcel Beck,
Mathias Mischler,
Michael Leun,
Petter E. Stokke,
Robin Vermaat,
Thorsten Stocksmeier,
Timo Jakob,
Troels Walsted Hansen
for their interest in this package.

@item All the Mailtext betatesters

@end table

@c \\\
@c /// "History"
@node History,,,Top
@appendix History
@cindex History
@cindex Revision history

@include HistoryE.texi

@c \\\
@c /// "Future"
@node Future,,,Top
@appendix Future
@cindex Future

The following features are still on the ToDo list for Mailtext, although
there's no guarantee that they'll ever be implemented.
<hint> @ref{Copyright,Giftware} <hint> :-)

@itemize @bullet

@item Replace text containing uuencoded data by a configurable picture and
make decoding possible.

@item Search for text.

@item Recognize doubleclicks on e-mail addresses (without mailto:) and
trigger an action just like with URLs.

@end itemize

If you would see some more features in Mailtext join the Mailtext
OpenSource team at http://sourceforge.net/projects/mailtext.

@c \\\
@c /// "MUI"
@node MUI,,,Top
@appendix MUI
@cindex MUI
@cindex MagicUserInterface
@center This application uses

@center MUI - MagicUserInterface


@center (c) Copyright 1993-98 by Stefan Stuntz


MUI is a system to generate and maintain graphical user interfaces. With
the  aid  of  a  preferences program, the user of an application has the
ability to customize the outfit according to his personal taste.

MUI is distributed as shareware. To obtain a complete package containing
lots of examples and more information about registration please look for
a  file  called  "muiXXusr.lha"  (XX means the latest version number) on
your local bulletin boards or on public domain disks.

@center If you want to register directly, feel free to send


@center DM 30.-  or  US$ 20.-

@center to

@center Stefan Stuntz
@center Eduard-Spranger-Straße 7
@center 80935 München
@center GERMANY

@c \\\

@node Concept index,,,Top
@unnumbered Concept index
@printindex cp

@contents

@bye

========================================================

