\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename indent.info
@settitle @command{indent}:  Indent and Format C Program Source
@include version.texi
@c %**end of header

@c smallbook
@c Note: some of the long options are too long for the index in
@c       smallbook format.  This will need some thought.  --rjc

@finalout

@synindex cp ky
@setchapternewpage odd

@ifinfo
@dircategory Indent Code Formatter
@direntry
* Indent: (indent).		C code formatter.
@end direntry

@c !BEGIN INTRO
This is Edition @value{EDITION} of @cite{The @command{indent} Manual},
for Indent Version @value{VERSION}, last updated @value{UPDATED}.
@c !END INTRO

@c !BEGIN COPYING
Copyright (C) 1989, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996 Joseph Arceneaux.
Copyright (C) 1999 Carlo Wood.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided also that the
section entitled ``GNU General Public License'' is included exactly as
in the original, and provided that the entire resulting derived work is
distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical to this
one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that the section entitled ``GNU General Public License'' may be
included in a translation approved by the author instead of in the
original English.
@end ignore
@c !END COPYING
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title Indent
@subtitle Format C Code
@sp 1
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, for Indent Version @value{VERSION}
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}
@c !BEGIN AUTHORS
@author Carlo Wood
@author Joseph Arceneaux
@author Jim Kingdon
@c !END AUTHORS
@page
@vskip 0pt plus1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1989, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 Free Software
Foundation, Inc.

Copyright @copyright{} 1995, 1996 Joseph Arceneaux.

Copyright @copyright{} 1999, Carlo Wood.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the Foundation.
@end titlepage
@page

@c put the following line in the the file dir in the info directory
@c under wherever you have installed emacs (assuming that
@c the info file made from this file is in the file "indent")
@c * indent:(indent).  How to change the appearance of a C program.

@ifinfo
@node Top, Indent Program, (dir), (dir)
@top @command{indent}:  Indent and Format C Program Source

The @command{indent} program
@c !BEGIN NAME
changes the appearance of a C program by inserting or deleting whitespace.  
@c !END NAME

This is Edition @value{EDITION}, @value{UPDATED}, of @cite{The @command{indent} Manual},
for Indent Version @value{VERSION}.
@end ifinfo

@menu
* Indent Program::              The @command{indent} Program
* Option Summary::              Option Summary
* Index::                       Index
@end menu

@node Indent Program, Option Summary, Top, Top
@chapter The @command{indent} Program

@c !BEGIN DESCRIPTION
@iftex
The @command{indent} program changes the appearance of a C program by
inserting or deleting whitespace.
@end iftex
@ifinfo
The @command{indent} program
@end ifinfo
@iftex
It
@end iftex
can be used to make code easier to read.  It can also convert from one
style of writing C to another.  

@command{indent} understands a substantial amount about the syntax of C,
but it also attempts to cope with incomplete and misformed syntax.

In version 1.2 and more recent versions, the GNU style of indenting is
the default.
@c !END DESCRIPTION

@menu
* Invoking indent::             Invoking @command{indent}
* Backup files::                Backup Files
* Common styles::               Common styles
* Blank lines::                 Blank lines
* Comments::                    Comments
* Statements::                  Statements
* Declarations::                Declarations
* Indentation::                 Indentation
* Breaking long lines::         Breaking long lines
* Disabling Formatting::        Disabling Formatting
* Miscellaneous options::       Miscellaneous options
* Bugs::                 	Bugs
* Copyright::                   Copyright
@end menu

@c !BEGIN THEREST
@node Invoking indent, Backup files,  , Indent Program
@section Invoking @command{indent}
@cindex Invoking @command{indent}
@cindex Starting @command{indent}
@cindex Beginning @command{indent}

As of version 1.3, the format of the @command{indent} command is:

@example
@group

indent [@var{options}] [@var{input-files}]

indent [@var{options}] [@var{single-input-file}] [-o @var{output-file}]

@end group
@end example

This format is different from earlier versions and other versions of
@command{indent}.

In the first form, one or more input files are specified.  @command{indent}
makes a backup copy of each file, and the original file is replaced with
its indented version.  @xref{Backup files}, for an explanation of how
backups are made.

@cindex Output File Specification
@kindex -o
@kindex --output-file
In the second form, only one input file is specified.  In this case, or
when the standard input is used, you may specify an output file after
the @option{-o} option.

@cindex Standard Output
@kindex -st
@kindex --standard-output
To cause @command{indent} to write to standard output, use the @option{-st}
option.  This is only allowed when there is only one input file, or when
the standard input is used.

@cindex Using Standard Input
If no input files are named, the standard input is read for input.
Also, if a filename named @option{-} is specified, then the standard input
is read.

As an example, each of the following commands will input the program
@file{slithy_toves.c} and write its indented text to
@file{slithy_toves.out}:

@example
@group

indent slithy_toves.c -o slithy_toves.out

indent -st slithy_toves.c > slithy_toves.out

cat slithy_toves.c | indent -o slithy_toves.out

@end group
@end example

@cindex Long options, use of
Most other options to @command{indent} control how programs are formatted.
As of version 1.2, @command{indent} also recognizes a long name for each
option name.  Long options are prefixed by either @option{--} or
@option{+}.@footnote{ @option{+} is being superseded by @option{--} to
maintain consistency with the POSIX standard.} In most of this document,
the traditional, short names are used for the sake of brevity.
@xref{Option Summary}, for a list of options, including both long and
short names.

Here is another example:

@example
indent -br test/metabolism.c -l85
@end example

This will indent the program @file{test/metabolism.c} using the
@option{-br} and @option{-l85} options, write the output back to
@file{test/metabolism.c}, and write the original contents of
@file{test/metabolism.c} to a backup file in the directory @file{test}.

Equivalent invocations using long option names for this example would
be:

@example
@group

indent --braces-on-if-line --line-length185 test/metabolism.c

indent +braces-on-if-line +line-length185 test/metabolism.c

@end group
@end example

@cindex @file{.indent.pro} file
@cindex Initialization file
@kindex -npro
@kindex --ignore-profile
If you find that you often use @command{indent} with the same options, you
may put those options into a file named @file{.indent.pro}.
@command{indent} will first look for @file{.indent.pro} in the current
directory and use that if found.  Otherwise, @command{indent} will search
your home directory for @file{.indent.pro} and use that file if it is
found.  This behaviour is different from that of other versions of
@command{indent}, which load both files if they both exist.

The format of @file{.indent.pro} is simply a list of options, just as
they would appear on the command line, separated by white space (tabs,
spaces, and newlines).  Options in @file{.indent.pro} may be surrounded by C
or C++ comments, in which case they are ignored.

Command line switches are handled @emph{after} processing
@file{.indent.pro}.  Options specified later override arguments
specified earlier, with one exception: Explicitly specified options
always override background options (@pxref{Common styles}).  You can
prevent @command{indent} from reading an @file{.indent.pro} file by
specifying the @option{-npro} option.@refill

@node Backup files, Common styles, Invoking indent, Indent Program
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Backup Files

@cindex backup files
As of version 1.3, GNU @command{indent} makes GNU-style backup files, the
same way GNU Emacs does.  This means that either @dfn{simple} or
@dfn{numbered} backup filenames may be made.

Simple backup file names are generated by appending a suffix to the
original file name.  The default for this suffix is the
one-character string @file{~} (tilde).  Thus, the backup file for
@file{python.c} would be @file{python.c~}.

Instead of the default, you may specify any string as a suffix by
setting the environment variable @env{SIMPLE_BACKUP_SUFFIX} to
your preferred suffix.

Numbered backup versions of a file @file{momeraths.c} look like
@file{momeraths.c.~23~}, where 23 is the version of this particular
backup.  When making a numbered backup of the file @file{src/momeraths.c},
the backup file will be named @file{src/momeraths.c.~@var{V}~}, where
@var{V} is one greater than the highest version currently existing in
the directory @file{src}.  The environment variable @env{VERSION_WIDTH}
controls the number of digits, using left zero padding when necessary.
For instance, setting this variable to "2" will lead to the backup
file being named @file{momeraths.c.~04~}.

The type of backup file made is controlled by the value of the
environment variable @env{VERSION_CONTROL}.  If it is the string
@samp{simple}, then only simple backups will be made.  If its value is
the string @samp{numbered}, then numbered backups will be made.  If its
value is @samp{numbered-existing}, then numbered backups will be made if
there @emph{already exist} numbered backups for the file being indented;
otherwise, a simple backup is made.  If @env{VERSION_CONTROL} is not
set, then @command{indent} assumes the behaviour of
@samp{numbered-existing}.

Other versions of @command{indent} use the suffix @file{.BAK} in naming
backup files.  This behaviour can be emulated by setting
@env{SIMPLE_BACKUP_SUFFIX} to @samp{.BAK}.

Note also that other versions of @command{indent} make backups in the
current directory, rather than in the directory of the source file as
GNU @command{indent} now does.

@node Common styles, Blank lines, Backup files, Indent Program
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Common styles

There are several common styles of C code, including the GNU style, the
Kernighan & Ritchie style, and the original Berkeley style.  A style may
be selected with a single @dfn{background} option, which specifies a set
of values for all other options.  However, explicitly specified options
always override options implied by a background option.

@cindex GNU style
@kindex -gnu
@kindex --gnu-style
As of version 1.2, the default style of GNU @command{indent} is the GNU
style.  Thus, it is no longer necessary to specify the option
@option{-gnu} to obtain this format, although doing so will not cause an
error.  Option settings which correspond to the GNU style are:

@example
@group
-nbad -bap -nbc -bbo -bl -bli2 -bls -ncdb -nce -cp1 -cs -di2
-ndj -nfc1 -nfca -hnl -i2 -ip5 -lp -pcs -nprs -psl -saf -sai
-saw -nsc -nsob
@end group
@end example

The GNU coding style is that preferred by the GNU project.  It is the
style that the GNU Emacs C mode encourages and which is used in the C
portions of GNU Emacs.  (People interested in writing programs for
Project GNU should get a copy of @cite{The GNU Coding Standards}, which
also covers semantic and portability issues such as memory usage, the
size of integers, etc.)

@cindex Kernighan & Ritchie style
@kindex -kr
@kindex --k-and-r-style
@comment --kernighan-and-ritchie-style works, too, as does
@comment --kernighan-and-ritchie.  Which is most intuitive?
The Kernighan & Ritchie style is used throughout their well-known book
@cite{The C Programming Language}.  It is enabled with the @option{-kr}
option.  The Kernighan & Ritchie style corresponds to the following set
of options:

@example
@group
-nbad -bap -bbo -nbc -br -brs -c33 -cd33 -ncdb -ce -ci4 -cli0
-cp33 -cs -d0 -di1 -nfc1 -nfca -hnl -i4 -ip0 -l75 -lp -npcs
-nprs -npsl -saf -sai -saw -nsc -nsob -nss
@end group
@end example

@noindent
Kernighan & Ritchie style does not put comments to the right of code in
the same column at all times (nor does it use only one space to the
right of the code), so for this style @command{indent} has arbitrarily
chosen column 33.

@cindex Berkeley style
@cindex Original Berkeley style
@kindex -orig
@kindex --original
The style of the original Berkeley @command{indent} may be obtained by
specifying @option{-orig} (or by specifying @option{--original}, using the
long option name).  This style is equivalent to the following settings:

@example
@group
-nbad -nbap -bbo -bc -br -brs -c33 -cd33 -cdb -ce -ci4 -cli0
-cp33 -di16 -fc1 -fca -hnl -i4 -ip4 -l75 -lp -npcs -nprs -psl
-saf -sai -saw -sc -nsob -nss -ts8
@end group
@end example

@node Blank lines, Comments, Common styles, Indent Program
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Blank lines
@cindex Blank lines

Various programming styles use blank lines in different places.
@command{indent} has a number of options to insert or delete blank lines in
specific places.

The @option{-bad} option causes @command{indent} to force a blank line after
every block of declarations.  The @option{-nbad} option causes
@command{indent} not to force such blank lines.

The @option{-bap} option forces a blank line after every procedure body.
The @option{-nbap} option forces no such blank line.

@kindex -bbb
@kindex --blank-lines-before-block-comments
@kindex -nbbb
@kindex --no-blank-lines-before-block-comments
The @option{-bbb} option forces a blank line before every boxed comment,
@xref{Comments}. The @option{-nbbb} option does not force such blank lines.

@kindex -sob
@kindex --swallow-optional-blank-lines
@kindex -nsob
@kindex --leave-optional-blank-lines
The @option{-sob} option causes @command{indent} to swallow optional blank
lines (that is, any optional blank lines present in the input will be
removed from the output).  If the @option{-nsob} is specified, any blank
lines present in the input file will be copied to the output file.

@menu
* -bad::                        More on the @option{-bad} option.
* -bap::                        More on the @option{-bap} option.
@end menu

@ifinfo
@node -bad, -bap,  , Blank lines
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@subsection --blank-lines-after-declarations

The @option{-bad} option forces a blank line after every block of
declarations.  The @option{-nbad} option does not add any such blank
lines.
@end ifinfo

For example, given the input
@example
@group
char *foo;
char *bar;
/* This separates blocks of declarations.  */
int baz;
@end group
@end example

@kindex -bad
@kindex --blank-lines-after-declarations
@kindex -nbad
@kindex --no-blank-lines-after-declarations
@noindent
@code{indent -bad} produces

@example
@group
char *foo;
char *bar;

/* This separates blocks of declarations.  */
int baz;
@end group
@end example

@noindent
and @code{indent -nbad} produces

@example
@group
char *foo;
char *bar;
/* This separates blocks of declarations.  */
int baz;
@end group
@end example

@ifinfo
@node -bap,  , -bad, Blank lines
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@subsection --blank-lines-after-procedures
@end ifinfo

@kindex -bap
@kindex --blank-lines-after-procedures
@kindex -nbap
@kindex --no-blank-lines-after-procedures
The @option{-bap} option forces a blank line after every procedure body.

For example, given the input

@example
@group
int
foo ()
@{
  puts("Hi");
@}
/* The procedure bar is even less interesting.  */
char *
bar ()
@{
  puts("Hello");
@}
@end group
@end example

@noindent
@code{indent -bap} produces

@example
@group
int
foo ()
@{
  puts ("Hi");
@}

/* The procedure bar is even less interesting.  */
char *
bar ()
@{
  puts ("Hello");
@}
@end group
@end example

@noindent
@c A better `group' would be better than `need'.
@need 1250
and @code{indent -nbap} produces

@example
@group
int
foo ()
@{
  puts ("Hi");
@}
/* The procedure bar is even less interesting.  */
char *
bar ()
@{
  puts ("Hello");
@}
@end group
@end example

@noindent
No blank line will be added after the procedure @code{foo}.

@node Comments, Statements, Blank lines, Indent Program
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Comments
@cindex Comments

@command{indent} formats both C and C++ comments. C comments are begun with
@samp{/*}, terminated with @samp{*/} and may contain newline characters.
C++ comments begin with the delimiter @samp{//} and end at the newline.

@command{indent} handles comments differently depending upon their context.
@command{indent} attempts to distinguish between comments which follow
statements, comments which follow declarations, comments following
preprocessor directives, and comments which are not preceded by code of
any sort, i.e., they begin the text of the line (although not
neccessarily in column 1).

@command{indent} further distinguishes between comments found outside of
procedures and aggregates, and those found within them.  In particular,
comments beginning a line found within a procedure will be indented to
the column at which code is currently indented.  The exception to this a
comment beginning in the leftmost column;  such a comment is output
at that column.

@command{indent} attempts to leave @dfn{boxed comments} unmodified.  The
general idea of such a comment is that it is enclosed in a rectangle or
``box'' of stars or dashes to visually set it apart.  More precisely,
boxed comments are defined as those in which the initial @samp{/*} is
followed immediately by the character @samp{*}, @samp{=}, @samp{_}, or
@samp{-}, or those in which the beginning comment delimiter (@samp{/*})
is on a line by itself, and the following line begins with a @samp{*} in
the same column as the star of the opening delimiter.

Examples of boxed comments are:

@example
@group
/**********************
 * Comment in a box!! *
 **********************/

       /*
        * A different kind of scent,
        * for a different kind of comment.
        */
@end group
@end example

@command{indent} attempts to leave boxed comments exactly as they are found
in the source file.  Thus the indentation of the comment is unchanged,
and its length is not checked in any way.  The only alteration made is
that an embedded tab character may be converted into the appropriate
number of spaces.

If the @option{-bbb} option is specified, all such boxed comments will be
preceded by a blank line, unless such a comment is preceded by code.

@kindex -fca
@kindex --format-all-comments
@kindex -nfca
@kindex --dont-format-comments
@kindex -fc1
@kindex --format-first-column-comments
@kindex -nfc1
@kindex --dont-format-first-column-comments
Comments which are not boxed comments may be formatted, which means that
the line is broken to fit within a right margin and left-filled with
whitespace.  Single newlines are equivalent to a space, but blank lines
(two or more newlines in a row) are taken to mean a paragraph break.
Formatting of comments which begin after the first column is enabled
with the @option{-fca} option.  To format those beginning in column one,
specify @option{-fc1}.  Such formatting is disabled by default.

The right margin for formatting defaults to 78, but may be changed with
the @option{-lc} option.  If the margin specified does not allow the
comment to be printed, the margin will be automatically extended for the
duration of that comment.  The margin is not respected if the comment is
not being formatted.

@kindex -d@var{n}
@kindex --line-comments-indentation@var{n}
If the comment begins a line (i.e., there is no program text to its
left), it will be indented to the column it was found in unless the
comment is within a block of code.  In that case, such a comment will be
aligned with the indented code of that block (unless the comment began
in the first column).  This alignment may be affected by the @option{-d}
option, which specifies an amount by which such comments are moved to
the @emph{left}, or unindented.  For example, @option{-d2} places comments
two spaces to the left of code.  By default, comments are aligned with
code, unless they begin in the first column, in which case they are left
there by default --- to get them aligned with the code, specify @option{-fc1}.

@kindex -c@var{n}
@kindex --comment-indentation@var{n}
@kindex -cd@var{n}
@kindex --declaration-comment-column@var{n}
@kindex -cp@var{n}
@kindex --else-endif-column@var{n}
Comments to the right of code will appear by default in column 33.
This may be changed with one of three options.  @option{-c} will specify
the column for comments following code, @option{-cd} specifies the
column for comments following declarations, and @option{-cp} specifies
the column for comments following preprocessor directives @code{#else}
and @code{#endif}.

If the code to the left of the comment exceeds the beginning column,
the comment column will be extended to the next tabstop column past
the end of the code, or in the case of preprocessor directives, to one
space past the end of the directive.  This extension lasts only for
the output of that particular comment.

@kindex -cdb
@kindex --comment-delimiters-on-blank-lines
@kindex -ncdb
@kindex --no-comment-delimiters-on-blank-lines
The @option{-cdb} option places the comment delimiters on blank lines.
Thus, a single line comment like @code{/* Loving hug */} can be
transformed into:

@example
@group
/*
   Loving hug
 */
@end group
@end example

@kindex -sc
@kindex --star-left-side-of-comments
@kindex -nsc
@kindex --dont-star-comments
Stars can be placed at the beginning of multi-line comments with the
@option{-sc} option.  Thus, the single-line comment above can be
transformed (with @option{-cdb -sc}) into:

@example
@group
/*
 * Loving hug
 */
@end group
@end example

@node Statements, Declarations, Comments, Indent Program
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Statements

@kindex -br
@kindex --braces-on-if-line
@kindex -bl
@kindex --braces-after-if-line
The @option{-br} or @option{-bl} option specifies how to format braces.

@c another paragraph that needs to be attached to its example.
@need 650
The @option{-br} option formats statement braces like this:

@example
@group
if (x > 0) @{
  x--;
@}
@end group
@end example

@noindent
The @option{-bl} option formats them like this:

@example
@group
if (x > 0)
  @{
    x--;
  @}
@end group
@end example

@kindex -bli@var{n}
@kindex --brace-indent@var{n}
If you use the @option{-bl} option, you may also want to specify the
@option{-bli} option.  This option specifies the number of spaces by
which braces are indented.  @option{-bli2}, the default, gives the
result shown above.  @option{-bli0} results in the following:

@example
@group
if (x > 0)
@{
  x--;
@}
@end group
@end example

@kindex -ce
@kindex --cuddle-else
@kindex -dce
@kindex --dont-cuddle-else
If you are using the @option{-br} option, you probably want to also use
the @option{-ce} option.  This causes the @code{else} in an if-then-else
construct to cuddle up to the immediately preceding @samp{@}}.  For
example, with @option{-br -ce} you get the following:

@example
@group
if (x > 0) @{
  x--;
@} else @{
  fprintf (stderr, "...something wrong?\n");
@}
@end group
@end example

@noindent
With @option{-br -nce} that code would appear as

@example
@group
if (x > 0) @{
  x--;
@}
else @{
  fprintf (stderr, "...something wrong?\n");
@}
@end group
@end example

@kindex -cdw
@kindex --cuddle-do-while
@kindex -ncdw
@kindex --dont-cuddle-do-while
This causes the @code{while} in a do-while
loop to cuddle up to the immediately preceding @samp{@}}.  For
example, with @option{-cdw} you get the following:

@example
@group
do @{
  x--;
@} while (x);
@end group
@end example

@noindent
With @option{-ncdw} that code would appear as

@example
@group
do @{
  x--;
@}
while (x);
@end group
@end example

@kindex -cli@var{n}
@kindex --case-indentation@var{n}
The @option{-cli} option specifies the number of spaces that case labels
should be indented to the right of the containing @code{switch}
statement.

@noindent
The default gives code like:

@example
@group
switch (i)
  @{
  case 0:
    break;
  case 1:
    @{
      ++i;
    @}
  default:
    break;
  @}
@end group
@end example

@need 1550
Using the @option{-cli2} that would become:

@example
@group
switch (i)
  @{
    case 0:
      break;
    case 1:
      @{
        ++i;
      @}
    default:
      break;
  @}
@end group
@end example

@kindex -cbi@var{n}
@kindex --case-brace-indentation@var{n}
The indentation of the braces below a case statement can be
controlled with the @option{-cbi@var{n}} option.  For example,
using @option{-cli2 -cbi0} results in:

@example
@group
switch (i)
  @{
    case 0:
      break;
    case 1:
    @{
      ++i;
    @}
    default:
      break;
  @}
@end group
@end example

@kindex -ss
@kindex --space-special-semicolon
@kindex -nss
@kindex --dont-space-special-semicolon
If a semicolon is on the same line as a @code{for} or @code{while}
statement, the @option{-ss} option will cause a space to be placed before
the semicolon.  This emphasizes the semicolon, making it clear that the
body of the @code{for} or @code{while} statement is an empty statement.
@option{-nss} disables this feature.

@kindex -pcs
@kindex --space-after-procedure-calls
@kindex -npcs
@kindex --no-space-after-function-call-names
The @option{-pcs} option causes a space to be placed between the name of
the procedure being called and the @samp{(} (for example, @w{@code{puts
("Hi");}}.  The @option{-npcs} option would give @code{puts("Hi");}).
@refill

@kindex -cs
@kindex --space-after-cast
@kindex -ncs
@kindex --no-space-after-casts
If the @option{-cs} option is specified, @command{indent} puts a space after
a cast operator.

@kindex -bs
@kindex --blank-after-sizeof
The @option{-bs} option ensures that there is a space between the
keyword @code{sizeof} and its argument.  In some versions, this is
known as the @samp{Bill_Shannon} option.

@kindex -saf
@kindex --space-after-for
@kindex -nsaf
@kindex --no-space-after-for
The @option{-saf} option forces a space between an @code{for}
and the following parenthesis.  This is the default.

@kindex -sai
@kindex --space-after-if
@kindex -nsai
@kindex --no-space-after-if
The @option{-sai} option forces a space between an @code{if}
and the following parenthesis.  This is the default.

@kindex -saw
@kindex --space-after-while
@kindex -nsaw
@kindex --no-space-after-while
The @option{-saw} option forces a space between an @code{while}
and the following parenthesis.  This is the default.

@kindex -prs
@kindex --space-after-parentheses
The @option{-prs} option causes all parentheses to be seperated with
a space from the what is between them.  For example, using @option{-prs}
results in code like:

@example
@group
  while ( ( e_code - s_code ) < ( dec_ind - 1 ) )
    @{
      set_buf_break ( bb_dec_ind );
      *e_code++ = ' ';
    @}
@end group
@end example

@node Declarations, Indentation, Statements, Indent Program
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Declarations

@kindex -di@var{n}
@kindex --declaration-indentation@var{n}
By default @command{indent} will line up identifiers, in the column
specified by the @option{-di} option.  For example, @option{-di16} makes
things look like:

@example
@group
int             foo;
char           *bar;
@end group
@end example

Using a small value (such as one or two) for the @option{-di} option can
be used to cause the identifiers to be placed in the first available
position; for example:

@example
@group
int foo;
char *bar;
@end group
@end example

The value given to the @option{-di} option will still affect variables
which are put on separate lines from their types, for example
@option{-di2} will lead to:

@example
@group
int
  foo;
@end group
@end example

@kindex -bc
@kindex --blank-lines-after-commas
@kindex -nbc
@kindex --no-blank-lines-after-commas
If the @option{-bc} option is specified, a newline is forced after each
comma in a declaration.  For example,

@example
@group
int a,
  b,
  c;
@end group
@end example

@noindent
With the @option{-nbc} option this would look like

@example
int a, b, c;
@end example

@kindex -bfda
@kindex --break-function-decl-args
@kindex -nbfda
@kindex --dont-break-function-decl-args
The @option{-bfda} option causes a newline to be forced after the comma
separating the arguments of a function declaration.  The arguments will
appear at the current indention level matching the opening paren.  This 
is particularly helpful for functions with long argument lists.   For 
example,

@example
@group
void foo (int arg1, char arg2, int *arg3, long arg4, char arg5);
@end group
@end example
@noindent
With the @option{-bfda} option this would look like

@example
void foo (int arg1,
          char arg2,
          int *arg3,
          long arg4,
          char arg5);
@end example

@kindex -psl
@kindex --procnames-start-lines
@kindex -npsl
@kindex --dont-break-procedure-type
@cindex @command{etags} requires @option{-psl}
The @option{-psl} option causes the type of a procedure being defined to
be placed on the line before the name of the procedure.  This style is
required for the @command{etags} program to work correctly, as well as some
of the @code{c-mode} functions of Emacs.

@kindex -T
@cindex Typenames
@cindex typedef
You must use the @option{-T}
option to tell @command{indent} the name of all the typenames in your
program that are defined by @code{typedef}.  @option{-T} can be specified
more than once, and all names specified are used.  For example, if your
program contains

@example
@group
typedef unsigned long CODE_ADDR;
typedef enum @{red, blue, green@} COLOR;
@end group
@end example

@noindent
you would use the options @option{-T CODE_ADDR -T COLOR}.

The @option{-brs} or @option{-bls} option specifies how to format braces
in struct declarations.  The @option{-brs} option formats braces like
this:

@example
@group
struct foo @{
  int x;
@};
@end group
@end example

@noindent
The @option{-bls} option formats them like this:

@example
@group
struct foo
@{
  int x;
@};
@end group
@end example

@node Indentation, Breaking long lines, Declarations, Indent Program
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Indentation

@kindex -i@var{n}
@kindex --indent-level@var{n}
@kindex -ci@var{n}
@kindex --continuation-indentation@var{n}
@kindex -lp
@kindex --continue-at-parentheses
@kindex -nlp
@kindex --dont-line-up-parentheses
One issue in the formatting of code is how far each line should be
indented from the left margin.  When the beginning of a statement such
as @code{if} or @code{for} is encountered, the indentation level is
increased by the value specified by the @option{-i} option.  For example,
use @option{-i8} to specify an eight character indentation for each
level.  When a statement is broken across two lines, the second line is
indented by a number of additional spaces specified by the @option{-ci}
option.  @option{-ci} defaults to 0.  However, if the @option{-lp} option is
specified, and a line has a left parenthesis which is not closed on that
line, then continuation lines will be lined up to start at the character
position just after the left parenthesis.  This processing also applies
to @samp{[} and applies to @samp{@{} when it occurs in initialization
lists.  For example, a piece of continued code might look like this with
@option{-nlp -ci3} in effect:

@example
@group
  p1 = first_procedure (second_procedure (p2, p3),
     third_procedure (p4, p5));
@end group
@end example

@noindent
With @option{-lp} in effect the code looks somewhat clearer:

@example
@group
  p1 = first_procedure (second_procedure (p2, p3),
                        third_procedure (p4, p5));
@end group
@end example

@kindex -ts@var{n}
@kindex --tab-size@var{n}
When a statement is broken in between two or more paren pairs (...),
each extra pair causes the indentation level extra indentation:

@example
@group
if ((((i < 2 &&
        k > 0) || p == 0) &&
    q == 1) ||
  n = 0)
@end group
@end example

@noindent
The option @option{-ip@var{N}} can be used to set the extra offset per paren.
For instance, @option{-ip0} would format the above as:

@example
@group
if ((((i < 2 &&
  k > 0) || p == 0) &&
  q == 1) ||
  n = 0)
@end group
@end example

@noindent
@command{indent} assumes that tabs are placed at regular intervals of both
input and output character streams.  These intervals are by default 8
columns wide, but (as of version 1.2) may be changed by the @option{-ts}
option.  Tabs are treated as the equivalent number of spaces.

@kindex -ip@var{n}
@kindex --parameter-indentation@var{n}
@kindex -nip
@kindex --no-parameter-indentation
The indentation of type declarations in old-style function definitions
is controlled by the @option{-ip} parameter.  This is a numeric parameter
specifying how many spaces to indent type declarations.  For example,
the default @w{@option{-ip5}} makes definitions look like this:

@example
@group
char *
create_world (x, y, scale)
     int x;
     int y;
     float scale;
@{
  . . .
@}
@end group
@end example

For compatibility with other versions of indent, the option @option{-nip}
is provided, which is equivalent to @option{-ip0}.

@kindex -lps
@kindex --leave-preprocessor-space
@kindex -nlps
@kindex --remove-preprocessor-space
ANSI C allows white space to be placed on preprocessor command lines
between the character @samp{#} and the command name.  By default,
@command{indent} removes this space, but specifying the @option{-lps} option
directs @command{indent} to leave this space unmodified.

@node Breaking long lines, Disabling Formatting, Indentation, Indent Program
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Breaking long lines

@kindex -l@var{n}
@kindex --line-length@var{n}
With the option @option{-l@var{n}}, or @option{--line-length@var{n}}, it is
possible to specify the maximum length of a line of C code, not including
possible comments that follow it.

When lines become longer then the specified line length, GNU @command{indent}
tries to break the line at a logical place.  This is new as of version 2.1
however and not very intelligent or flexible yet.

@kindex -bbo
@kindex --break-before-boolean-operator
@kindex -nbbo
@kindex --break-after-boolean-operator
@kindex -hnl
@kindex --honour-newlines
@kindex -nhnl
@kindex --ignore-newlines
Currently there are two options that allows one to interfere with the
algorithm that determines where to break a line.

The @option{-bbo} option causes GNU @command{indent} to prefer to break
long lines before the boolean operators @code{&&} and @code{||}.  The
@option{-nbbo} option causes GNU @command{indent} not have that
preference.  For example, the default option @option{-bbo} (together
with @option{--line-length60} and @option{--ignore-newlines}) makes code
look like this:

@example
@group
  if (mask
      && ((mask[0] == '\0')
          || (mask[1] == '\0'
              && ((mask[0] == '0') || (mask[0] == '*')))))
@end group
@end example

Using the option @option{-nbbo} will make it look like this:

@example
@group
  if (mask &&
      ((mask[0] == '\0') ||
       (mask[1] == '\0' &&
        ((mask[0] == '0') || (mask[0] == '*')))))
@end group
@end example

The default @option{-hnl}, however, honours newlines in the input file by
giving them the highest possible priority to break lines at.  For example,
when the input file looks like this:

@example
@group
  if (mask
      && ((mask[0] == '\0')
      || (mask[1] == '\0' && ((mask[0] == '0') || (mask[0] == '*')))))
@end group
@end example

@noindent
then using the option @option{-hnl}, or @option{--honour-newlines},
together with the previously mentioned @option{-nbbo} and
@option{--line-length60}, will cause the output not to be what is given
in the last example but instead will prefer to break at the positions
where the code was broken in the input file:

@example
@group
  if (mask
      && ((mask[0] == '\0')
          || (mask[1] == '\0' &&
              ((mask[0] == '0') || (mask[0] == '*')))))
@end group
@end example

The idea behind this option is that lines which are too long, but are already
broken up, will not be touched by GNU @command{indent}.  Really messy code
should be run through @command{indent} at least once using the
@option{--ignore-newlines} option though.

@node Disabling Formatting, Miscellaneous options, Breaking long lines, Indent Program
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Disabling Formatting

Formatting of C code may be disabled for portions of a program by
embedding special @dfn{control comments} in the program.  To turn off
formatting for a section of a program, place the disabling control
comment @code{/* *INDENT-OFF* */} on a line by itself just before that
section.  Program text scanned after this control comment is output
precisely as input with no modifications until the corresponding
enabling comment is scanned on a line by itself.  The disabling control
comment is @code{/* *INDENT-ON* */}, and any text following the comment
on the line is also output unformatted.  Formatting begins again with
the input line following the enabling control comment.

More precisely, @command{indent} does not attempt to verify the closing
delimiter (@code{*/}) for these C comments, and any whitespace on the
line is totally transparent.

These control comments also function in their C++ formats, namely
@code{// *INDENT-OFF*} and @code{// *INDENT-ON*}.

It should be noted that the internal state of @command{indent} remains
unchanged over the course of the unformatted section.  Thus, for
example, turning off formatting in the middle of a function and
continuing it after the end of the function may lead to bizarre
results.  It is therefore wise to be somewhat modular in selecting code
to be left unformatted.

As a historical note, some earlier versions of @command{indent} produced
error messages beginning with @code{*INDENT**}.  These versions of
@command{indent} were written to ignore any input text lines which began
with such error messages.  I have removed this incestuous feature from
GNU @command{indent}.

@node Miscellaneous options, Bugs, Disabling Formatting, Indent Program
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Miscellaneous options

@kindex -version
To find out what version of @command{indent} you have, use the command
@code{indent -version}.  This will report the version number of
@command{indent}, without doing any of the normal processing.

@kindex -v
@kindex --verbose
@kindex -nv
@kindex --no-verbosity
@comment Would --terse be better?  I think not, but perhaps accepting
@comment --no-verbose would avoid error messages.
The @option{-v} option can be used to turn on verbose mode.  When in
verbose mode, @command{indent} reports when it splits one line of input
into two more more lines of output, and gives some size statistics at
completion. 

@kindex -pmt
@kindex --preserve-mtime
@kindex -npmt
The @option{-pmt} option causes @command{indent} to preserve the access
and modification times on the output files.  Using this option
has the advantage that running indent on all source and header
files in a project won't cause @code{make} to rebuild all targets.
This option is only available on Operating Systems that have the
POSIX @code{utime(2)} function.

@node Bugs, Copyright, Miscellaneous options, Indent Program
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Bugs

When @command{indent} is run twice on a file, with the same profile,
it should @emph{never} change that file the second time.  With the
current design of @command{indent}, this can not be guaranteed, however,
and it has not been extensively tested.

@command{indent} does not understand C.  In some cases this leads to
the inability to join lines.  The result is that running a file
through @command{indent} is @emph{irreversible}, even if the used input
file was the result of running @command{indent} with a given profile
(@file{.indent.pro}).

While an attempt was made to get @command{indent} working for C++, is
will not do a good job on any C++ source except the very simple.

@command{indent} does not look at the given @option{--line-length} option
when writing comments to the output file.  This results often in comments
being put far to the right.  In order to prohibit @command{indent} from
joining a broken line that has a comment at the end, make sure that the
comments start on the first line of the break.

@command{indent} does not count lines and comments (see the @option{-v}
option) when @command{indent} is turned off with 
@code{/* *INDENT-OFF* */}.

Comments of the form @code{/*UPPERCASE*/} are not treated as comment but as an
identifier, causing them to be joined with the next line. This renders
comments of this type useless, unless they are embedded in the code to
begin with.

@node Copyright,  , Bugs, Indent Program
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Copyright

The following copyright notice applies to the @command{indent} program.
The copyright and copying permissions for this manual appear near the
beginning of @file{indent.texinfo} and @file{indent.info}, and near the
end of @file{indent.1}.

@display
Copyright @copyright{} 1999 Carlo Wood.
Copyright @copyright{} 1995, 1996 Joseph Arceneaux.
Copyright @copyright{} 1989, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 Free Software Foundation
Copyright @copyright{} 1985 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
Copyright @copyright{} 1980 The Regents of the University of California.
Copyright @copyright{} 1976 Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois.
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
advertising materials, and other materials related to such
distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
by the University of California, Berkeley, the University of Illinois,
Urbana, and Sun Microsystems, Inc.  The name of either University
or Sun Microsystems may not be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
@end display
@c !END THEREST

@node Option Summary, Index, Indent Program, Top
@appendix Option Summary

Here is a list of all the options for @command{indent}, alphabetized by
short option.  It is followed by a cross key alphabetized by long option.

@c !BEGIN OPTIONS
@c The cross references are all on lines by themselves because this
@c looks better in both printed output and Info.  4 Feb 1992  --rjc
@table @samp
@item -bad
@itemx --blank-lines-after-declarations
Force blank lines after the declarations.@*
@xref{Blank lines}.

@item -bap
@itemx --blank-lines-after-procedures
Force blank lines after procedure bodies.@*
@xref{Blank lines}.

@item -bbb
@itemx --blank-lines-before-block-comments
Force blank lines before block comments.@*
@xref{Blank lines}.

@item -bbo
@itemx --break-before-boolean-operator
Prefer to break long lines before boolean operators.@*
@xref{Breaking long lines}.

@item -bc
@itemx --blank-lines-after-commas
Force newline after comma in declaration.@*
@xref{Declarations}.

@item -bl
@itemx --braces-after-if-line
Put braces on line after @code{if}, etc.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -bli@var{n}
@itemx --brace-indent@var{n}
Indent braces @var{n} spaces.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -bls
@itemx --braces-after-struct-decl-line
Put braces on the line after @code{struct} declaration lines.@*
@xref{Declarations}.

@item -br
@itemx --braces-on-if-line
Put braces on line with @code{if}, etc.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -brs
@itemx --braces-on-struct-decl-line
Put braces on @code{struct} declaration line.@*
@xref{Declarations}.

@item -bs
@itemx --Bill-Shannon
@itemx --blank-before-sizeof
Put a space between @code{sizeof} and its argument.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -c@var{n}
@itemx --comment-indentation@var{n}
Put comments to the right of code in column @var{n}.@*
@xref{Comments}.

@item -cbi@var{n}
@itemx --case-brace-indentation@var{n}
Indent braces after a case label N spaces.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -cd@var{n}
@itemx --declaration-comment-column@var{n}
Put comments to the right of the declarations in column @var{n}.@*
@xref{Comments}.

@item -cdb
@itemx --comment-delimiters-on-blank-lines
Put comment delimiters on blank lines.@*
@xref{Comments}.

@item -cdw
@itemx --cuddle-do-while
Cuddle while of @code{do @{@} while;} and preceeding @samp{@}}.@*
@xref{Comments}.

@item -ce
@itemx --cuddle-else
Cuddle else and preceeding @samp{@}}.@*
@xref{Comments}.

@item -ci@var{n}
@itemx --continuation-indentation@var{n}
Continuation indent of @var{n} spaces.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -cli@var{n}
@itemx --case-indentation@var{n}
Case label indent of @var{n} spaces.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -cp@var{n}
@itemx --else-endif-column@var{n}
Put comments to the right of @code{#else} and 
@code{#endif} statements in column @var{n}.@*
@xref{Comments}.

@item -cs
@itemx --space-after-cast
Put a space after a cast operator.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -d@var{n}
@itemx --line-comments-indentation@var{n}
Set indentation of comments not to the right 
of code to @var{n} spaces.@*
@xref{Comments}.

@item -bfda
@itemx --break-function-decl-args
Align all arguments in a declaration with opening paren.@*
@xref{Declarations}.

@item -di@var{n}
@itemx --declaration-indentation@var{n}
Put variables in column @var{n}.@*
@xref{Declarations}.

@item -fc1
@itemx --format-first-column-comments
Format comments in the first column.@*
@xref{Comments}.

@item -fca
@itemx --format-all-comments
Do not disable all formatting of comments.@*
@xref{Comments}.

@item -gnu
@itemx --gnu-style
Use GNU coding style.  This is the default.@*
@xref{Common styles}.

@item -hnl
@itemx --honour-newlines
Prefer to break long lines at the position of newlines in the input.@*
@xref{Breaking long lines}.

@item -i@var{n}
@itemx --indent-level@var{n}
Set indentation level to @var{n} spaces.@*
@xref{Indentation}.

@item -ip@var{n}
@itemx --parameter-indentation@var{n}
Indent parameter types in old-style function 
definitions by @var{n} spaces.@*
@xref{Indentation}.

@item -kr
@itemx --k-and-r-style
Use Kernighan & Ritchie coding style.@*
@xref{Common styles}.

@item -l@var{n}
@itemx --line-length@var{n}
Set maximum line length for non-comment lines to @var{n}.@*
@xref{Breaking long lines}.

@item -lc@var{n}
@itemx --comment-line-length@var{n}
Set maximum line length for comment formatting to @var{n}.@*
@xref{Comments}.

@item -lp
@itemx --continue-at-parentheses
Line up continued lines at parentheses.@*
@xref{Indentation}.

@item -lps
@itemx --leave-preprocessor-space
Leave space between @samp{#} and preprocessor directive.@*
@xref{Indentation}.

@item -nbad
@itemx --no-blank-lines-after-declarations
Do not force blank lines after declarations.@*
@xref{Blank lines}.

@item -nbap
@itemx --no-blank-lines-after-procedures
Do not force blank lines after procedure bodies.@*
@xref{Blank lines}.

@ignore
@comment Didn't do anything, so I removed it
@item -nbbb
@itemx --no-blank-lines-before-block-comments
Do not force blank-lines before block comments.@*
@xref{Blank lines}.
@end ignore

@item -nbbo
@itemx --break-after-boolean-operator
Do not prefer to break long lines before boolean operators.@*
@xref{Breaking long lines}.

@item -nbc
@itemx --no-blank-lines-after-commas
Do not force newlines after commas in declarations.@*
@xref{Declarations}.

@item -nbfda
@itemx --dont-break-function-decl-args
Don't put each argument in a function declaration on a seperate line.@*
@xref{Declarations}.

@item -ncdb
@itemx --no-comment-delimiters-on-blank-lines
Do not put comment delimiters on blank lines.@*
@xref{Comments}.

@item -ncdw
@itemx --dont-cuddle-do-while
Do not cuddle @code{@}} and the @code{while} of a @code{do @{@} while;}.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -nce
@itemx --dont-cuddle-else
Do not cuddle @code{@}} and @code{else}.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -ncs
@itemx --no-space-after-casts
Do not put a space after cast operators.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -nfc1
@itemx --dont-format-first-column-comments
Do not format comments in the first column as normal.@*
@xref{Comments}.

@item -nfca
@itemx --dont-format-comments
Do not format any comments.@*
@xref{Comments}.

@item -nhnl
@itemx --ignore-newlines
Do not prefer to break long lines at the position of newlines in the input.@*
@xref{Breaking long lines}.

@item -nip
@itemx --no-parameter-indentation
Zero width indentation for parameters.@*
@xref{Indentation}.

@item -nlp
@itemx --dont-line-up-parentheses
Do not line up parentheses.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -npcs
@itemx --no-space-after-function-call-names
Do not put space after the function in function calls.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -nprs
@itemx --no-space-after-parentheses
Do not put a space after every '(' and before every ')'.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -npsl
@itemx --dont-break-procedure-type
Put the type of a procedure on the same line as its name.@*
@xref{Declarations}.

@item -nsaf
@itemx --no-space-after-for
Do not put a space after every @code{for}.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -nsai
@itemx --no-space-after-if
Do not put a space after every @code{if}.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -nsaw
@itemx --no-space-after-while
Do not put a space after every @code{while}.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -nsc
@itemx --dont-star-comments
Do not put the @samp{*} character at the left of comments.@*
@xref{Comments}.

@item -nsob
@itemx --leave-optional-blank-lines
Do not swallow optional blank lines.@*
@xref{Blank lines}.

@item -nss  
@itemx --dont-space-special-semicolon
Do not force a space before the semicolon after certain statements.
Disables @option{-ss}.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -nut
@itemx --no-tabs
Use spaces instead of tabs.@*
@xref{Indentation}.

@item -nv
@itemx --no-verbosity
Disable verbose mode.@*
@xref{Miscellaneous options}.

@item -orig
@itemx --original
Use the original Berkeley coding style.@*
@xref{Common styles}.

@item -npro
@itemx --ignore-profile
Do not read @file{.indent.pro} files.@*
@xref{Invoking indent}.

@item -pcs  
@itemx --space-after-procedure-calls
Insert a space between the name of the 
procedure being called and the @samp{(}.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -pi@var{n}
@itemx --paren-indentation@var{n}
Specify the extra indentation per open parentheses '(' when a
statement is broken.
@xref{Statements}.

@item -pmt
@itemx --preserve-mtime
Preserve access and modification times on output files.
@xref{Miscellaneous options}.

@item -prs
@itemx --space-after-parentheses
Put a space after every '(' and before every ')'.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -psl
@itemx --procnames-start-lines
Put the type of a procedure on the line before its name.@*
@xref{Declarations}.

@item -saf
@itemx --space-after-for
Put a space after each @code{for}.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -sai
@itemx --space-after-if
Put a space after each @code{if}.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -saw
@itemx --space-after-while
Put a space after each @code{while}.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -sbi@var{n}
@itemx --struct-brace-indentation@var{n}
Indent braces of a struct, union or enum N spaces.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -sc
@itemx --start-left-side-of-comments
Put the @samp{*} character at the left of comments.@*
@xref{Comments}.

@item -sob
@itemx --swallow-optional-blank-lines
Swallow optional blank lines.@*
@xref{Blank lines}.

@item -ss
@itemx --space-special-semicolon
On one-line @code{for} and @code{while} statments, 
force a blank before the semicolon.@*
@xref{Statements}.

@item -st
@itemx --standard-output
Write to standard output.@*
@xref{Invoking indent}.

@item -T   
Tell @command{indent} the name of typenames.@*
@xref{Declarations}.

@item -ts@var{n}
@itemx --tab-size@var{n}
Set tab size to @var{n} spaces.@*
@xref{Indentation}.

@item -ut
@itemx --use-tabs
Use tabs. This is the default.@*
@xref{Indentation}.

@item -v
@itemx --verbose
Enable verbose mode.@*
@xref{Miscellaneous options}.

@item -version
Output the version number of @command{indent}.@*
@xref{Miscellaneous options}.
@end table
@c !END OPTIONS

@c !BEGIN CROSSREF
@subheading Options' Cross Key

Here is a list of options alphabetized by long option, to help you find
the corresponding short option.

@iftex
@sp 2
@end iftex
@tex
\def\leaderfill{\leaders\hbox to 1em{\hss.\hss}\hfill}

{\tt
\line{ --blank-lines-after-commas \leaderfill         -bc\ \ }  
\line{ --blank-lines-after-declarations \leaderfill   -bad\ } 
\line{ --blank-lines-after-procedures \leaderfill     -bap\ }  
\line{ --blank-lines-before-block-comments \leaderfill -bbb\ }
\line{ --braces-after-if-line \leaderfill            -bl\ \ } 
\line{ --brace-indent \leaderfill                -bli@var{n}}
\line{ --braces-after-struct-decl-line \leaderfill    -bls\ \ }
\line{ --break-after-boolean-operator \leaderfill     -nbbo\ \ }
\line{ --break-before-boolean-operator \leaderfill    -bbo\ \ }
\line{ --break-function-decl-args \leaderfill         -bfda} 
\line{ --braces-on-if-line \leaderfill               -br\ \ }      
\line{ --braces-on-struct-decl-line \leaderfill       -brs\ \ }
\line{ --case-indentation \leaderfill            -cli@var{n}}
\line{ --case-brace-indentation \leaderfill      -cbi@var{n}}
\line{ --comment-delimiters-on-blank-lines \leaderfill -cdb\ }
\line{ --comment-indentation \leaderfill       -c@var{n}\ \ } 
\line{ --continuation-indentation       \leaderfill -ci@var{n}\ } 
\line{ --continue-at-parentheses  \leaderfill   -lp\ \ }            
\line{ --cuddle-do-while \leaderfill                     -cdw\ \ }
\line{ --cuddle-else \leaderfill                         -ce\ \ }
\line{ --declaration-comment-column \leaderfill  -cd@var{n}\ } 
\line{ --declaration-indentation \leaderfill     -di@var{n}\ } 
\line{ --dont-break-function-decl-args \leaderfill       -nbfda} 
\line{ --dont-break-procedure-type \leaderfill           -npsl} 
\line{ --dont-cuddle-do-while \leaderfill                -ncdw\ \ }
\line{ --dont-cuddle-else \leaderfill                    -nce\ }  
\line{ --dont-format-comments \leaderfill                -nfca} 
\line{ --dont-format-first-column-comments \leaderfill   -nfc1} 
\line{ --dont-line-up-parentheses \leaderfill            -nlp\ }  
\line{ --dont-space-special-semicolon \leaderfill        -nss\ }
\line{ --dont-star-comments \leaderfill                  -nsc\ }  
\line{ --else-endif-column \leaderfill             -cp@var{n}\ }
\line{ --format-all-comments \leaderfill                 -fca\ }  
\line{ --format-first-column-comments \leaderfill        -fc1\ }  
\line{ --gnu-style \leaderfill                           -gnu\ }  
\line{ --honour-newlines \leaderfill                     -hnl\ \ }
\line{ --ignore-newlines \leaderfill                     -nhnl\ \ }
\line{ --ignore-profile \leaderfill                      -npro} 
\line{ --indent-level \leaderfill                  -i@var{n}\ \ }
\line{ --k-and-r-style \leaderfill                       -kr\ \ }
\line{ --leave-optional-blank-lines \leaderfill          -nsob}    
\line{ --line-comments-indentation \leaderfill      -d@var{n}\ \ }
\line{ --leave-preprocessor-space \leaderfill       -lps\ }
\line{ --line-length \leaderfill                    -l@var{n}\ \ }
\line{ --no-blank-lines-after-commas \leaderfill         -nbc\ }   
\line{ --no-blank-lines-after-declarations \leaderfill   -nbad}  
\line{ --no-blank-lines-after-procedures \leaderfill     -nbap}  
\line{ --no-blank-lines-before-block-comments \leaderfill -nbbb}
\line{ --no-comment-delimiters-on-blank-lines \leaderfill -ncdb}  
\line{ --no-space-after-casts \leaderfill               -ncs\ }    
\line{ --no-parameter-indentation \leaderfill               -nip\ }    
\line{ --no-space-after-for \leaderfill             -nsaf}
\line{ --no-space-after-function-call-names \leaderfill -npcs}   
\line{ --no-space-after-if \leaderfill             -nsai}
\line{ --no-space-after-parentheses \leaderfill          -nprs}
\line{ --no-space-after-while \leaderfill             -nsaw}
\line{ --no-tabs \leaderfill                            -nut\ \ } 
\line{ --no-verbosity \leaderfill                       -nv\ \ }
\line{ --original \leaderfill                      -orig}
\line{ --parameter-indentation \leaderfill         -ip@var{n}\ } 
\line{ --paren-indentation \leaderfill             -pi@var{n}\ }
\line{ --preserve-mtime \leaderfill                -pmt\ }
\line{ --procnames-start-lines \leaderfill         -psl\ }  
\line{ --space-after-cast \leaderfill              -cs\ \ } 
\line{ --space-after-for \leaderfill               -saf\ }
\line{ --space-after-if \leaderfill                -sai\ }
\line{ --space-after-parentheses \leaderfill       -prs\ }
\line{ --space-after-procedure-calls \leaderfill   -pcs\ }  
\line{ --space-after-while \leaderfill             -saw\ }
\line{ --space-special-semicolon \leaderfill       -ss\ \ } 
\line{ --standard-output \leaderfill      -st\ \ } 
\line{ --start-left-side-of-comments \leaderfill   -sc\ \ }
\line{ --struct-brace-indentation \leaderfill      -sbi@var{n}}
\line{ --swallow-optional-blank-lines \leaderfill  -sob\ } 
\line{ --tab-size \leaderfill          -ts@var{n}\ }  
\line{ --use-tabs \leaderfill          -ut\ \ } 
\line{ --verbose \leaderfill       -v\ \ \ }  
}
@end tex

@ifinfo
@example
--blank-lines-after-commas                      -bc             
--blank-lines-after-declarations                -bad            
--blank-lines-after-procedures                  -bap            
--blank-lines-before-block-comments             -bbb            
--braces-after-if-line                          -bl             
--brace-indent                                  -bli
--braces-after-struct-decl-line                 -bls
--braces-on-if-line                             -br             
--braces-on-struct-decl-line                    -brs
--break-after-boolean-operator                  -nbbo
--break-before-boolean-operator                 -bbo
--break-function-decl-args                      -bfda
--case-indentation                              -cli@var{n}     
--case-brace-indentation                        -cbi@var{n}
--comment-delimiters-on-blank-lines             -cdb            
--comment-indentation                           -c@var{n}       
--continuation-indentation                      -ci@var{n}      
--continue-at-parentheses                       -lp             
--cuddle-do-while                               -cdw
--cuddle-else                                   -ce             
--declaration-comment-column                    -cd@var{n}      
--declaration-indentation                       -di@var{n}      
--dont-break-function-decl-args                 -nbfda
--dont-break-procedure-type                     -npsl           
--dont-cuddle-do-while                          -ncdw
--dont-cuddle-else                              -nce            
--dont-format-comments                          -nfca           
--dont-format-first-column-comments             -nfc1           
--dont-line-up-parentheses                      -nlp            
--dont-space-special-semicolon                  -nss
--dont-star-comments                            -nsc            
--else-endif-column                             -cp@var{n}
--format-all-comments                           -fca            
--format-first-column-comments                  -fc1            
--gnu-style                                     -gnu            
--honour-newlines                               -hnl
--ignore-newlines                               -nhnl
--ignore-profile                                -npro           
--indent-level                                  -i@var{n}       
--k-and-r-style                                 -kr             
--leave-optional-blank-lines                    -nsob           
--leave-preprocessor-space                      -lps
--line-comments-indentation                     -d@var{n}       
--line-length                                   -l@var{n}       
--no-blank-lines-after-commas                   -nbc            
--no-blank-lines-after-declarations             -nbad           
--no-blank-lines-after-procedures               -nbap           
--no-blank-lines-before-block-comments          -nbbb           
--no-comment-delimiters-on-blank-lines          -ncdb           
--no-space-after-casts                          -ncs            
--no-parameter-indentation                      -nip            
--no-space-after-for				-nsaf
--no-space-after-function-call-names            -npcs           
--no-space-after-if				-nsai
--no-space-after-parentheses                    -nprs
--no-space-after-while				-nsaw
--no-tabs                                       -nut
--no-verbosity                                  -nv             
--original                                      -orig
--parameter-indentation                         -ip@var{n}      
--paren-indentation                             -pi@var{n}
--preserve-mtime				-pmt
--procnames-start-lines                         -psl            
--space-after-cast                              -cs             
--space-after-for				-saf
--space-after-if				-sai
--space-after-parentheses                       -prs
--space-after-procedure-calls                   -pcs            
--space-after-while				-saw
--space-special-semicolon                       -ss             
--standard-output                               -st             
--start-left-side-of-comments                   -sc             
--struct-brace-indentation                      -sbi@var{n}
--swallow-optional-blank-lines                  -sob            
--tab-size                                      -ts@var{n}      
--use-tabs                                      -ut
--verbose                                       -v              
@end example
@end ifinfo
@c !END CROSSREF

@node Index,  , Option Summary, Top
@unnumbered Index

@printindex ky

@page
@contents
@bye
