.TH XaoS 6 "13 Sep 1997" "XaoS" "Demos"

.SH NAME
XaoS \- Fast interactive real-time fractal zoomer/morpher

.SH SYNOPSIS
xaos [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION

XaoS is a protable real-time interactive fractal zoomer/morpher.
UNIX version works under X11, SVGA and text terminals.
If you don't knwo what fractal is or you want to know more about
XaoS features you should see animated tutorial. 
.B \ Run XaoS and press 'H' twice.
It is much more fun than reading of boring manual page :) and it supports foregin
languages. You might also read 
.B \ xaos.info 
file for some advanced stuff
(like how to write animations and tutorials manually, port or extend XaoS,
algorithms used etc.)

.SH "OPTIONS"
XaoS' options should be divided into following parts:
.TP
.B \ Ugly interface options
This options are common for all installations of XaoS because only
interface available for now is ugly interface.
.TP
.B \ Driver selection options
This options lets you choose graphics driver.
.TP
.B \ Driver depended options
This options depends on available drivers.
.SH "SCREEN SIZE OPTIONS"
Knowedge of exact screen size needs XaoS to make random dot stereograms
and choosing good view areas for fractal. This should be done by two ways.
Choosing screen size or choosing pixel size. Screen size is best for fullscreen
drivers where resolution(so pixel size) should be changed. At the other hand
pixel size is best for windowed envireoments where some kind of virtual screen
etc should confuse calculation of pixel size from screen size.
.TP
.B \-screenwidth
exact size of screen in centimeters
.TP
.B \-screenheight
exact size of screen in centimeters
.TP
.B \-pixelwidth
exact size of pixel in centimeters
.TP
.B \-pixelheight
exact size of pixel in centimeters
.SH "DRIVER SELECTION OPTIONS"
Every xaos installation has some graphics driver. This depends on
used operating system, available libraries and configuration. XaoS
by default tries to enable best available driver. So it for example
in GNU/Linux case it tests drivers in following order:
.br
SVGAlib
.br
X11
.br
curses
.br
Following options are used to control this operation:
.TP
.B \-driver    
This options lets you specify driver to use and avoid autodection.
.TP
.B \-list
List available drivers and then exit.

.SH "OTHER UI OPTIONS"
Other options are quite easy to understand and depends on XaoS configuration
and version, so I do not describe them here use 
.B \ xaos -help
for complette list of options with description.
.SH "BUGS"
There is no known bugs in this release. See xaos home-page 
at: 
.B \ http://www.paru.cas.cz/~hubicka/XaoS
for list with solutions. Please report bugs to 
.B \ xaos@horac.ta.jcu.cz
.SH "AUTHORS"
.B Maitainer:
.br
.B Jan Hubicka (hubicka@paru.cas.cz)
.br
.B smail:
.br
Jan Hubicka
.br
Dukelskych bojovniku 1944
.br
Tabor
.br
39003
.br
Czech Republic
.br
.br
.B Thomas Marsh (tmarsh@austion.ibm.com)
.br
See README for full credits
